--- Source: resources\aws_certified_solutions_architect___associate__saa_c03\Randomized Test - AWS Certified Solutions Architect Associate - Tutorials Dojo.pdf ---
QUIZ 1 OF 36 July 20, 2026 (cid:0) (cid:0) Randomized Test – AWS Certified Solutions Architect Associate 44 of 65 questions answered correctly YOUR TIME: 00:09:08 You have reached 44 of 65 point(s), (67.69%) Categories CSAA – Design Cost-Optimized Architectures 66.67% CSAA – Design High-Performing Architectures 72.73% CSAA – Design Resilient Architectures 46.67% CSAA – Design Secure Architectures 81.25% Sorry, you failed the test. Carefully read our detailed explanations including the references and cheat sheets then try again. 🙂 To view your record of all previous attempts: Visit our FAQ page for more information on the site’s features. Restart Quiz View All Questions ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 🏳 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ Answered 🏳 For Review Pause 1. QUESTION A retail website has intermittent, sporadic, and unpredictable transactional workloads throughout the day that are hard to predict. The website is currently hosted on-premises and is slated to be migrated to AWS. A new relational database is needed that autoscales capacity to meet the needs of the application’s peak load and scales back down when the surge of activity is over. Which of the following option is the MOST cost-effective and suitable database setup in this scenario? Launch an Amazon Redshift data warehouse cluster with Concurrency Scaling. Launch an Amazon Aurora Serverless DB cluster then set the minimum and maximum capacity for the cluster. Launch a DynamoDB Global table with Auto Scaling enabled. Launch an Amazon Aurora Provisioned DB cluster with burstable performance DB instance class types. Correct Amazon Aurora Serverless is an on-demand, auto-scaling configuration for Amazon Aurora. An Aurora Serverless DB cluster is a DB cluster that automatically starts up, shuts down, and scales up or down its compute capacity based on your application’s needs. Aurora Serverless provides a relatively simple, cost-effective option for infrequent, intermittent, sporadic, or unpredictable workloads. It can provide this because it automatically starts up, scales compute capacity to match your application’s usage, and shuts down when it’s not in use. Take note that a non-Serverless DB cluster for Aurora is called a provisioned DB cluster. Aurora Serverless clusters and provisioned clusters both have the same kind of high-capacity, distributed, and highly available storage volume. When you work with Amazon Aurora without Aurora Serverless (provisioned DB clusters), you can choose your DB instance class size and create Aurora Replicas to increase read- throughput. If your workload changes, you can modify the DB instance class size and change the number of Aurora Replicas. This model works well when the database workload is predictable because you can adjust capacity manually based on the expected workload. However, in some environments, workloads can be intermittent and unpredictable. There can be periods of heavy workloads that might last only a few minutes or hours, and also long periods of light activity or even no activity. Some examples are retail websites with intermittent sales events, reporting databases that produce reports when needed, development and testing environments, and new applications with uncertain requirements. In these cases and many others, it can be difficult to configure the correct capacity at the right times. It can also result in higher costs when you pay for capacity that isn’t used. With Aurora Serverless, you can create a database endpoint without specifying the DB instance class size. You set the minimum and maximum capacity. With Aurora Serverless, the database endpoint connects to a proxy fleet that routes the workload to a fleet of resources that are automatically scaled. Because of the proxy fleet, connections are continuous as Aurora Serverless scales the resources automatically based on the minimum and maximum capacity specifications. Database client applications don’t need to change to use the proxy fleet. Aurora Serverless manages the connections automatically. Scaling is rapid because it uses a pool of “warm” resources that are always ready to service requests. Storage and processing are separate, so you can scale down to zero processing and pay only for storage. Aurora Serverless introduces a new serverless DB engine mode for Aurora DB clusters. Non-Serverless DB clusters use the provisioned DB engine mode. Hence, the correct answer is: Launch an Amazon Aurora Serverless DB cluster then set the minimum and maximum capacity for the cluster. The option that says: Launch an Amazon Aurora Provisioned DB cluster with burstable performance DB instance class types is incorrect because an Aurora Provisioned DB cluster is not suitable for intermittent, sporadic, and unpredictable transactional workloads. This model works well when the database workload is predictable because you can adjust capacity manually based on the expected workload. A better database setup here is to use an Amazon Aurora Serverless cluster. The option that says: Launch a DynamoDB Global table with Auto Scaling enabled is incorrect. Although it is using Auto Scaling, the scenario explicitly indicated that you need a relational database to handle your transactional workloads. DynamoDB is a NoSQL database and is not suitable for this use case. Moreover, the use of a DynamoDB Global table is not warranted since this is primarily used if you need a fully managed, multi-region, and multi-master database that provides fast, local, read and write performance for massively scaled, global applications. The option that says: Launch an Amazon Redshift data warehouse cluster with Concurrency Scaling is incorrect because this type of database is primarily used for online analytical processing (OLAP) and not for online transactional processing (OLTP). Concurrency Scaling is simply an Amazon Redshift feature that automatically and elastically scales query processing power of your Redshift cluster to provide consistently fast performance for hundreds of concurrent queries. References: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/aurora- serverless.how-it-works.html https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/aurora- serverless.html 2. QUESTION A web application hosted in an Auto Scaling group of EC2 instances in AWS. The application receives a burst of traffic every morning, and a lot of users are complaining about request timeouts. The EC2 instance takes 1 minute to boot up before it can respond to user requests. The cloud architecture must be redesigned to better respond to the changing traffic of the application. How should the Solutions Architect redesign the architecture? Create a Network Load Balancer with slow-start mode. Create a CloudFront distribution and set the EC2 instance as the origin. Create a step scaling policy and configure an instance warm-up time condition. Create a new launch template and upgrade the size of the instance. Correct Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling helps you maintain application availability and allows you to automatically add or remove EC2 instances according to conditions you define. You can use the fleet management features of EC2 Auto Scaling to maintain the health and availability of your fleet. You can also use the dynamic and predictive scaling features of EC2 Auto Scaling to add or remove EC2 instances. Dynamic scaling responds to changing demand and predictive scaling automatically schedules the right number of EC2 instances based on predicted demand. Dynamic scaling and predictive scaling can be used together to scale faster. Step scaling applies “step adjustments” which means you can set multiple actions to vary the scaling depending on the size of the alarm breach. When you create a step scaling policy, you can also specify the number of seconds that it takes for a newly launched instance to warm up. Hence, the correct answer is: Create a step scaling policy and configure an instance warm-up time condition. The option that says: Create a Network Load Balancer with slow start mode is incorrect because Network Load Balancer does not support slow start mode. If you need to enable slow start mode, you should use Application Load Balancer. The option that says: Create a new launch template and upgrade the size of the instance is incorrect because a larger instance does not always improve the boot time. Instead of upgrading the instance, you should create a step scaling policy and add a warm-up time. The option that says: Create a CloudFront distribution and set the EC2 instance as the origin is incorrect because this approach only resolves the traffic latency. Take note that the requirement in the scenario is to resolve the timeout issue and not the traffic latency. References: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/autoscaling/ec2/userguide/as- scaling-simple-step.html https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/autoscaling/faqs/ Check out these AWS Cheat Sheets: https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-auto-scaling/ https://tutorialsdojo.com/step-scaling-vs-simple-scaling-policies- in-amazon-ec2/ 3. QUESTION A company has multiple research departments that have deployed several resources to the AWS cloud. Each department is free to provision resources as needed. To ensure normal operations, the company wants to track its AWS resource usage so that it does not reach the AWS service quotas unexpectedly. Which combination of actions should the Solutions Architect implement to meet the company requirements? (Select TWO.) Write an AWS Lambda function that refreshes the AWS Trusted Advisor Service Limits checks and set it to run every 24 hours. Create an Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS) topic and configure it as a target for notifications. Utilize the AWS managed rule on AWS Config to monitor AWS resource service quotas. Schedule this checking using an AWS Lambda function. Capture the events using Amazon EventBridge (Amazon CloudWatch Events) and use an Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS) topic as the target for notifications. Query the AWS Trusted Advisor Service Limits check every 24 hours by calling the DescribeTrustedAdvisorChecks API operation. Ensure that your AWS account has a Developer support plan. Incorrect AWS Trusted Advisor draws upon best practices learned from serving hundreds of thousands of AWS customers. Trusted Advisor inspects your AWS environment and then makes recommendations when opportunities exist to save money, improve system availability and performance, or help close security gaps. If you have a Basic or Developer Support plan, you can use the Trusted Advisor console to access all checks in the Service Limits category and six checks in the Security category. AWS has an example of the implementation of the Quota Monitor CloudFormation template that you can deploy on your AWS account. The template uses an AWS Lambda function that runs once every 24 hours. The Lambda function refreshes the AWS Trusted Advisor Service Limits checks to retrieve the most current utilization and quota data through API calls. Amazon EventBridge captures the status events from Trusted Advisor. It uses a set of EventBridge rules to send the status events to all the targets you choose during the initial deployment of the solution: an Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS) queue, an Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS) topic, or a Lambda function for Slack notifications. The AWS Trusted Advisor Service limit publishes service limits metric to CloudWatch; thus, you can configure an alarm and send a notification to Amazon SNS. You can also create an AWS Lambda function to read data from specific Trusted Advisor checks. A Lambda function invocation can be scheduled using Amazon EventBridge (Amazon CloudWatch Events) to automate the process. Hence, the following options are correct: – Capture the events using Amazon EventBridge (Amazon CloudWatch Events) and use an Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS) topic as the target for notifications – Write an AWS Lambda function that refreshes the AWS Trusted Advisor Service Limits checks and set it to run every 24 hours The option that says: Create an Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS) topic and configure it as a target for notifications is incorrect. This option is incomplete as it doesn’t specify where the notification comes from, such as from EventBridge, Lambda functions, etc. The option that says: Query the AWS Trusted Advisor Service Limits check every 24 hours by calling the DescribeTrustedAdvisorChecks API operation. Ensure that your AWS account has a Developer support plan is incorrect. This API only returns information about all available AWS Trusted Advisor checks, so it will be difficult to extract only “service limits” information from this API call. Moreover, the Trusted Advisor APIs (AWS Support APIs) are only available for Business, Enterprise On-Ramp, or Enterprise Support plans. The option that says: Utilize the AWS managed rule on AWS Config to monitor AWS resource service quotas. Schedule this checking using an AWS Lambda function is incorrect because AWS Config rules are primarily designed for compliance purposes rather than for real-time monitoring of quota usage. Additionally, depending on AWS Config adds both costs and complexity, as it requires a separate service to schedule and trigger these checks. References: https://aws.amazon.com/solutions/implementations/quota- monitor/ https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/mt/monitoring-service-limits-with- trusted-advisor-and-amazon-cloudwatch/ Check out these Amazon CloudWatch and AWS Trusted Advisor Cheat Sheets: https://tutorialsdojo.com/amazon-cloudwatch/ https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-trusted-advisor/ 4. QUESTION A multinational corporation is in the process of migrating its legacy applications from an on-premises Microsoft Active Directory to AWS. These applications are spread across multiple AWS accounts, which are managed collectively by AWS Organizations. The corporation is seeking a single sign-on (SSO) solution that allows the security team to use their current Active Directory credentials for authentication across all AWS accounts. Additionally, they need to maintain centralized user and group management in their existing on-premises Active Directory. Which approach should the corporation take to fulfill these requirements? Set up an external identity provider (IdP) on an Amazon EC2 instance. Integrate this IdP with AWS IAM Identity Center as the identity source. Activate AWS IAM Identity Center and establish a two-way forest trust relationship. Link the corporation's Active Directory (AD) with the IAM Identity Center via AWS Managed Microsoft AD. Utilize AWS Directory Service to establish a two-way trust relationship with the corporation's self-managed Active Directory for mutual authentication and access control. Implement AWS Directory Service's Managed Microsoft AD (Enterprise Edition). Set up the Active Directory as the principal identity provider for AWS IAM Identity Center. Correct AWS IAM Identity Center is a service that simplifies the management of access to AWS accounts and applications. By centralizing user access control, the AWS IAM Identity Center enables users to sign in with a single set of credentials to access multiple AWS accounts and applications. It integrates with external identity providers, including Microsoft Active Directory, allowing organizations to leverage their existing user directories for authentication. This integration facilitates streamlined access management and enhances security by enforcing consistent access policies across all AWS resources and applications. The service supports automatically provisioning user accounts into AWS accounts, simplifying the user management lifecycle and reducing administrative overhead. AWS Managed Microsoft AD is a service that extends Microsoft Active Directory (AD) to the AWS Cloud. It provides a highly available and scalable Active Directory service, enabling AWS resources and directory-aware workloads to use standard AD administration features and tools. By deploying AWS Managed Microsoft AD, organizations can run directory-dependent applications in the AWS Cloud without requiring complex directory synchronization or federation setups. The service supports trust relationships, allowing seamless integration with an existing on-premises Microsoft Active Directory. This capability enables organizations to maintain a unified identity foundation, leveraging their existing investments in Microsoft AD while expanding their infrastructure into the cloud. Through trust relationships, users can access resources across both on- premises environments and AWS using their existing credentials, simplifying access control and improving security posture. The combination of AWS IAM Identity Center and AWS Managed Microsoft AD through a two-way forest trust relationship offers a powerful solution for managing user access across a multi- account AWS environment while retaining user and group management administration within an existing on-premises Active Directory. This setup allows organizations to extend their identity and access management practices to the cloud, ensuring a consistent and secure user experience. Hence, the correct answer is: Activate AWS IAM Identity Center and establish a two-way forest trust relationship. Link the corporation’s Active Directory (AD) with the IAM Identity Center via AWS Managed Microsoft AD. The option that says: Implement AWS Directory Service’s Managed Microsoft AD (Enterprise Edition). Set up the Active Directory as the principal identity provider for AWS IAM Identity Center is incorrect. This option is focused on implementing AWS Managed Microsoft AD and setting it up as the principal identity provider for AWS IAM Identity Center. While it provides a robust solution for utilizing Active Directory in the AWS Cloud, it does not explicitly mention establishing a trust relationship with the on-premises AD. This lack of a direct trust relationship may hinder seamless integration and management of user identities and access controls between the on-premises and cloud environments, limiting the ability to maintain administration within the existing on-premises AD. The option that says: Utilize AWS Directory Service to establish a two-way trust relationship with the corporation’s self-managed Active Directory for mutual authentication and access control is incorrect. While this option promotes mutual authentication and access control, it primarily facilitates access between on-premises and AWS resources rather than providing a comprehensive solution for managing access across multiple AWS accounts. It lacks integration with the AWS IAM Identity Center, which is critical for centralized access management to AWS accounts and applications, making it less suitable for creating a unified authentication framework across the corporation’s entire AWS environment. The option that says: Set up an external identity provider (IdP) on an Amazon EC2 instance. Integrate this IdP with AWS IAM Identity Center as the identity source is incorrect. Setting up an external identity provider on an Amazon EC2 instance can only introduce complexity and security concerns. Developing, securing, and maintaining the IdP software running on EC2 requires significant effort, detracting from the simplicity and security benefits of using AWS-managed services. This approach could also lead to latency and reliability issues and diverges from leveraging the corporation’s existing Microsoft Active Directory, potentially complicating user and group management within its on-premises infrastructure. References: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/directoryservice/latest/admin- guide/ms_ad_setup_trust.html https://docs.aws.amazon.com/singlesignon/latest/userguide/manage- your-identity-source-ad.html Check out this AWS Identity and Access Management Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-identity-and-access-management- iam/ 5. QUESTION A company deployed an online enrollment system database on a prestigious university, which is hosted in RDS. The Solutions Architect is required to monitor the database metrics in Amazon CloudWatch to ensure the availability of the enrollment system. What are the enhanced monitoring metrics that Amazon CloudWatch gathers from Amazon RDS DB instances which provide more accurate information? (Select TWO.) Freeable Memory OS processes Database Connections RDS child processes CPU Utilization Incorrect Amazon RDS provides metrics in real-time for the operating system (OS) that your DB instance runs on. You can view the metrics for your DB instance using the console or consume the Enhanced Monitoring JSON output from CloudWatch Logs in a monitoring system of your choice. CloudWatch gathers metrics about CPU utilization from the hypervisor for a DB instance, and Enhanced Monitoring gathers its metrics from an agent on the instance. As a result, you might find differences between the measurements because the hypervisor layer performs a small amount of work. The differences can be greater if your DB instances use smaller instance classes because then there are likely more virtual machines (VMs) that are managed by the hypervisor layer on a single physical instance. Enhanced Monitoring metrics are useful when you want to see how different processes or threads on a DB instance use the CPU. In RDS, the Enhanced Monitoring metrics shown in the Process List view are organized as follows: RDS child processes – Shows a summary of the RDS processes that support the DB instance, for example aurora for Amazon Aurora DB clusters and mysqld for MySQL DB instances. Process threads appear nested beneath the parent process. Process threads show CPU utilization only as other metrics are the same for all threads for the process. The console displays a maximum of 100 processes and threads. The results are a combination of the top CPU-consuming and memory-consuming processes and threads. If there are more than 50 processes and more than 50 threads, the console displays the top 50 consumers in each category. This display helps you identify which processes are having the greatest impact on performance. RDS processes – Shows a summary of the resources used by the RDS management agent, diagnostics monitoring processes, and other AWS processes that are required to support RDS DB instances. OS processes – Shows a summary of the kernel and system processes, which generally have minimal impact on performance. CPU Utilization, Database Connections, and Freeable Memory are incorrect because these are just the regular items provided by Amazon RDS Metrics in CloudWatch. Remember that the scenario is asking for the Enhanced Monitoring metrics. References: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/rds- metricscollected.html https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/USER_Monitoring.OS Check out this Amazon CloudWatch Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/amazon-cloudwatch/ Check out this Amazon RDS Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/amazon-relational-database-service- amazon-rds/ 6. QUESTION A wellness company is currently working on a wearable device that monitors key health metrics such as heart rate, sleep, and steps per day. The device is designed to send data to an Amazon S3 bucket for storage and analysis. On a daily basis, the device produces 1 MB of data. In order to quickly process and summarize this data, the company requires 512 MB of memory and must complete the task within a maximum of 10 seconds. Which solution can fulfill these requirements in the MOST cost- effective manner? Use AWS Lambda with a Python library for processing. Use Amazon Data Firehose to send the data from the device to Amazon S3. Process the data on an EC2 instance with at least 512 MB of memory. Create an AWS Glue PySpark job to process the data. Store the data in Amazon Redshift and process it with AWS Lambda. Correct With AWS Lambda, you pay only for what you use. You are charged based on the number of requests for your functions and the duration of the time it takes for your code to execute. Lambda counts a request each time it starts executing in response to an event notification or invoke call, including test invokes from the console. You are charged for the total number of requests across all your functions. Duration is calculated from the time your code begins executing until it returns or otherwise terminates, rounded up to the nearest 1ms. The price depends on the amount of memory you allocate to your function. The Lambda free tier includes 1M free requests per month and over 400,000 GB seconds of compute time per month. The seamless integration of AWS Lambda with other AWS services, like Amazon S3 where health data is stored, enables effortless data transfer and processing. This guarantees smooth retrieval of data from the wearable device and its subsequent analysis. With serverless computing, AWS Lambda eliminates the need for infrastructure management, and automatic scaling based on workload is possible. Python is a versatile and widely-used programming language with extensive libraries, making it ideal for efficient data processing, analysis, and summarization due to its simplicity. Hence, the correct answer is: Use AWS Lambda with a Python library for processing. The option that says: Create an AWS Glue PySpark job to process the data is incorrect. While it’s a valid solution, it’s a bit of overkill to use AWS Glue for processing 1 MB of data per day. AWS Glue has a minimum billing duration of 1 minute (Glue version 2.0 and later), which is not cost-effective for processing small amounts of data quickly (in 10 seconds). The option that says: Use Amazon Data Firehose to send the data from the device to Amazon S3. Process the data on an EC2 instance with at least 512 MB of memory is incorrect. Data Firehose is meant for delivering streaming data to a storage. Using it to transport 1 MB of data per day is not cost- effective and would only complicate the process. Additionally, processing data on an EC2 instance requires more management and can be more costly in comparison to a serverless solution like AWS Lambda. The option that says: Store the data in Amazon Redshift and process it with AWS Lambda. is incorrect. If you’re looking for a reliable data warehousing service to handle analytics workloads on large datasets, Amazon Redshift is a great option. Given the scale of the data being generated (1 MB per day), using Redshift would be a poor fit. It would be significantly more expensive than necessary for this small amount of data, and it would not offer any significant benefit over using S3 as the storage backend and processing with AWS Lambda. References: https://aws.amazon.com/what-is/python/ https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/pricing/ Check out this AWS Lambda Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-lambda/ 7. QUESTION A start-up company that offers an intuitive financial data analytics service has consulted about its AWS architecture. The company has a fleet of Amazon EC2 worker instances that process financial data and then output reports used by its clients. The reports must be stored in a durable storage. The number of files to be stored can grow over time as the start-up company is expanding rapidly overseas, and thus, it also needs a way to distribute the reports faster to clients located across the globe. Which of the following is a cost-efficient and scalable storage option for this scenario? Use Amazon S3 Glacier as the data storage and Amazon ElastiCache as the CDN. Use Amazon Redshift as the data storage and Amazon CloudFront as the CDN. Use Amazon S3 as the data storage and Amazon CloudFront as the CDN. Use multiple EC2 instance stores for data storage and Amazon ElastiCache as the CDN. Correct A Content Delivery Network (CDN) is a critical component of nearly any modern web application. It used to be that CDN merely improved the delivery of content by replicating commonly requested files (static content) across a globally distributed set of caching servers. However, CDNs have become much more useful over time. For caching, a CDN will reduce the load on an application origin and improve the experience of the requestor by delivering a local copy of the content from a nearby cache edge, or Point of Presence (PoP). The application origin is off the hook for opening the connection and delivering the content directly as the CDN takes care of the heavy lifting. The end result is that the application origins don’t need to scale to meet demands for static content. Amazon CloudFront is a fast content delivery network (CDN) service that securely delivers data, videos, applications, and APIs to customers globally with low latency, high transfer speeds, all within a developer-friendly environment. CloudFront is integrated with AWS – both physical locations that are directly connected to the AWS global infrastructure, as well as other AWS services. Amazon S3 offers a highly durable, scalable, and secure destination for backing up and archiving your critical data. This is the correct option as the start-up company is looking for a durable storage to store the audio and text files. In addition, ElastiCache is only used for caching and not specifically as a Global Content Delivery Network (CDN). Hence, the correct answer is: Use Amazon S3 as the data storage and Amazon CloudFront as the CDN. The option that says: Use Amazon Redshift as the data storage and Amazon CloudFront as the CDN is incorrect because Amazon Redshift is primarily used as a Data Warehouse. The option that says: Use Amazon S3 Glacier as the data storage and Amazon ElastiCache as the CDN is incorrect because Amazon S3 Glacier is only used for data archives. The option that says: Use multiple EC2 instance stores for data storage and Amazon ElastiCache as the CDN is incorrect because data stored in an instance store is not durable. References: https://aws.amazon.com/s3/ https://aws.amazon.com/caching/cdn/ Check out this Amazon S3 Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/amazon-s3/ Tutorials Dojo’s AWS Certified Solutions Architect Associate Exam Study Guide: https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-certified-solutions-architect- associate/ 8. QUESTION A Solutions Architect uses AWS Lake Formation to manage a data lake that stores petabytes of data spread across various AWS accounts. The data lake contains various reporting data that are uploaded by both the Data Analytics and the DevOps team. The Data Analytics team wants to selectively share certain data from its accounts in a secure manner with the company’s DevOps team for reporting purposes. Strict data access control and monitoring must be implemented to meet security and compliance requirements. Which of the following is the most operationally efficient way to fulfill these requirements with MINIMAL operational overhead? Replicate the necessary data to a central AWS account. Set up AWS Organizations and AWS Control Tower for governance and security standardization. Establish an IAM access role in the central account. Define a permission policy that includes trusted entities from the Data Analytics team accounts and facilitated through AWS Organizations. Implement Lake Formation tag-based access control to enable authorization and cross-account permissions for the needed datasets to engineering team accounts. Integrate with AWS Security Hub to enhance security monitoring and compliance oversight. Utilize the AWS Lake Formation permissions "Grant" command in each account to give the DevOps teams access to specific datasets. Implement AWS Security Hub Integration to ensure robust security monitoring. Use AWS Data Exchange to securely share required data with designated DevOps team accounts. Implement Lake Formation permissions "Grant" command within each account for fine-grained control. Correct AWS Lake Formation is a robust data lake-building service that simplifies creating, securing, and managing data lakes. It provides a centralized location for storing data from various sources and enables you to analyze this data using a wide range of AWS tools and services. One of the key features of AWS Lake Formation is tag-based access control, which allows administrators to grant or deny access to data based on tags attached to the data. Tag-based access control in AWS Lake Formation is a powerful way to ensure that only authorized users can access sensitive data. By attaching tags to data, you can control who can access that data based on the tags they have been assigned. For example, you might have a “sensitive” tag attached to all personal information data. You could then grant access to this data only to users assigned the “sensitive” tag. Additionally, AWS Lake Formation provides cross-account permissions, which allow data lake administrators to share data across multiple AWS accounts while maintaining control over who can access that data. Another essential feature of AWS Lake Formation is its integration with AWS Security Hub. This integration allows you to monitor the security of your data lake and receive alerts when potential security issues are detected. AWS Security Hub provides a centralized location for managing security issues across all your AWS services, including AWS Lake Formation. By integrating with AWS Security Hub, you can quickly identify and address security issues in your data lake, ensuring your data is always secure and protected. Hence, the correct answer is: Implement Lake Formation tag- based access control to enable authorization and cross- account permissions for the needed datasets to engineering team accounts. Integrate with AWS Security Hub to enhance security monitoring and compliance oversight. The option that says: Replicate the necessary data to a central AWS account. Set up AWS Organizations and AWS Control Tower for governance and security standardization. Establish an IAM access role in the central account. Define a permission policy that includes trusted entities from the Data Analytics team accounts and facilitated through AWS Organizations is incorrect. Replicating the necessary data to a central AWS account, as well as setting up AWS Organizations and AWS Control Tower for governance and security standardization, can introduce unnecessary complexity and operational overhead. Managing petabytes of data in a central account might lead to data transfer costs, increased latency for data access, and potential data consistency issues. While establishing an IAM access role in the central account and defining permission policies through AWS Organizations can provide some control, it may not be the most efficient way to manage access to data spread across various AWS accounts. The option that says: Utilize the AWS Lake Formation permissions “Grant” command in each account to give the DevOps teams access to specific datasets. Implement AWS Security Hub Integration to ensure robust security monitoring is incorrect. Utilizing the AWS Lake Formation permissions “Grant” command in each account to give DevOps teams access to specific datasets would be challenging, especially when dealing with numerous datasets and multiple engineering teams. This approach lacks centralized control and can result in a fragmented access management process, making it harder to enforce consistent security policies and monitor data access effectively. While implementing AWS Security Hub integration is beneficial, it doesn’t address the challenges associated with managing access at scale. The option that says: Use AWS Data Exchange to securely share required data with designated DevOps team accounts. Implement Lake Formation permissions “Grant” command within each account for fine-grained control is incorrect. AWS Data Exchange is primarily designed for data providers to share data with subscribers in a controlled manner, but it does not provide the necessary granularity and flexibility for managing access to datasets within a data lake. Combining Data Exchange with Lake Formation’s “Grant” command may lead to overlapping access controls and increased complexity without centralizing access management. References: https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/big-data/securely-share-your- data-across-aws-accounts-using-aws-lake-formation/ https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lake-formation/latest/dg/what-is- lake-formation.html https://docs.aws.amazon.com/securityhub/latest/userguide/what- is-securityhub.html Check out these AWS Lake Formation and AWS Security Hub Cheat Sheets: https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-lake-formation/ https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-security-hub/ 9. QUESTION A tech company has a CRM application hosted on an Auto Scaling group of On-Demand EC2 instances with different instance types and sizes. The application is extensively used during office hours from 9 in the morning to 5 in the afternoon. Their users are complaining that the performance of the application is slow during the start of the day but then works normally after a couple of hours. Which of the following is the MOST operationally efficient solution to implement to ensure the application works properly at the beginning of the day? Configure a Dynamic scaling policy for the Auto Scaling group to launch new instances based on the Memory utilization. Configure a Scheduled scaling policy for the Auto Scaling group to launch new instances before the start of the day. Configure a Predictive scaling policy for the Auto Scaling group to automatically adjust the number of Amazon EC2 instances Configure a Dynamic scaling policy for the Auto Scaling group to launch new instances based on the CPU utilization. Correct Scaling based on a schedule allows you to scale your application in response to predictable load changes. For example, every week the traffic to your web application starts to increase on Wednesday, remains high on Thursday, and starts to decrease on Friday. You can plan your scaling activities based on the predictable traffic patterns of your web application. To configure your Auto Scaling group to scale based on a schedule, you create a scheduled action. The scheduled action tells Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling to perform a scaling action at specified times. To create a scheduled scaling action, you specify the start time when the scaling action should take effect and the new minimum, maximum, and desired sizes for the scaling action. At the specified time, Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling updates the group with the values for minimum, maximum, and desired size specified by the scaling action. You can create scheduled actions for scaling one time only or for scaling on a recurring schedule. Hence, configuring a Scheduled scaling policy for the Auto Scaling group to launch new instances before the start of the day is the correct answer. You need to configure a Scheduled scaling policy. This will ensure that the instances are already scaled up and ready before the start of the day since this is when the application is used the most. The following options are both incorrect. Although these are valid solutions, it is still better to configure a Scheduled scaling policy as you already know the exact peak hours of your application. By the time either the CPU or Memory hits a peak, the application already has performance issues, so you need to ensure the scaling is done beforehand using a Scheduled scaling policy: -Configure a Dynamic scaling policy for the Auto Scaling group to launch new instances based on the CPU utilization -Configure a Dynamic scaling policy for the Auto Scaling group to launch new instances based on the Memory utilization The option that says: Configure a Predictive scaling policy for the Auto Scaling group to automatically adjust the number of Amazon EC2 instances is incorrect. Although this type of scaling policy can be used in this scenario, it is not the most operationally efficient option. Take note that the scenario mentioned that the Auto Scaling group consists of Amazon EC2 instances with different instance types and sizes. Predictive scaling assumes that your Auto Scaling group is homogenous, which means that all EC2 instances are of equal capacity. The forecasted capacity can be inaccurate if you are using a variety of EC2 instance sizes and types on your Auto Scaling group. References: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/autoscaling/ec2/userguide/schedule_time.html https://docs.aws.amazon.com/autoscaling/ec2/userguide/ec2- auto-scaling-scheduled-scaling.html https://docs.aws.amazon.com/autoscaling/ec2/userguide/ec2- auto-scaling-predictive-scaling.html#predictive-scaling-limitations Check out this AWS Auto Scaling Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-auto-scaling/ 10. QUESTION A payment processing company plans to migrate its on-premises application to an Amazon EC2 instance. An IPv6 CIDR block is attached to the company’s Amazon VPC. Strict security policy mandates that the production VPC must only allow outbound communication over IPv6 between the instance and the internet but should prevent the internet from initiating an inbound IPv6 connection. The new architecture should also allow traffic flow inspection and traffic filtering. What should a solutions architect do to meet these requirements? Launch the EC2 instance to a private subnet and attach AWS PrivateLink interface endpoint to the VPC to control outbound IPv6 communication to the internet. Use Amazon GuardDuty to set up the required rules for traffic inspection and traffic filtering. Launch the EC2 instance to a public subnet and attach an Internet Gateway to the VPC to allow outbound IPv6 communication to the internet. Use Traffic Mirroring to set up the required rules for traffic inspection and traffic filtering. Launch the EC2 instance to a private subnet and attach a NAT Gateway to the VPC to allow outbound IPv6 communication to the internet. Use AWS Firewall Manager to set up the required rules for traffic inspection and traffic filtering. Launch the EC2 instance to a private subnet and attach an Egress-Only Internet Gateway to the VPC to allow outbound IPv6 communication to the internet. Use AWS Network Firewall to set up the required rules for traffic inspection and traffic filtering. Correct An egress-only internet gateway is a horizontally scaled, redundant, and highly available VPC component that allows outbound communication over IPv6 from instances in your VPC to the internet and prevents it from initiating an IPv6 connection with your instances. IPv6 addresses are globally unique and are therefore public by default. If you want your instance to be able to access the internet, but you want to prevent resources on the internet from initiating communication with your instance, you can use an egress-only internet gateway. A subnet is a range of IP addresses in your VPC. You can launch AWS resources into a specified subnet. Use a public subnet for resources that must be connected to the internet and a private subnet for resources that won’t be connected to the internet. AWS Network Firewall is a managed service that makes it easy to deploy essential network protections for all of your Amazon Virtual Private Clouds (VPCs). The service can be set up with just a few clicks and scales automatically with your network traffic, so you don’t have to worry about deploying and managing any infrastructure. AWS Network Firewall includes features that provide protection from common network threats. AWS Network Firewall’s stateful firewall can incorporate context from traffic flows, like tracking connections and protocol identification, to enforce policies such as preventing your VPCs from accessing domains using an unauthorized protocol. AWS Network Firewall’s intrusion prevention system (IPS) provides active traffic flow inspection so you can identify and block vulnerability exploits using signature-based detection. AWS Network Firewall also offers web filtering that can stop traffic to known bad URLs and monitor fully qualified domain names. In this scenario, you can use an egress-only internet gateway to allow outbound IPv6 communication to the internet and then use the AWS Network Firewall to set up the required rules for traffic inspection and traffic filtering. Hence, the correct answer is: Launch the EC2 instance to a private subnet and attach an Egress-Only Internet Gateway to the VPC to allow outbound IPv6 communication to the internet. Use AWS Network Firewall to set up the required rules for traffic inspection and traffic filtering. The option that says: Launch the EC2 instance to a private subnet and attach AWS PrivateLink interface endpoint to the VPC to control outbound IPv6 communication to the internet. Use Amazon GuardDuty to set up the required rules for traffic inspection and traffic filtering is incorrect because the AWS PrivateLink (which is also known as VPC Endpoint) is just a highly available, scalable technology that enables you to privately connect your VPC to the AWS services as if they were in your VPC. This service is not capable of controlling outbound IPv6 communication to the Internet. Furthermore, the Amazon GuardDuty service doesn’t have the features to do traffic inspection or filtering. The option that says: Launch the EC2 instance to a public subnet and attach an Internet Gateway to the VPC to allow outbound IPv6 communication to the internet. Use Traffic Mirroring to set up the required rules for traffic inspection and traffic filtering is incorrect because an Internet Gateway does not limit or control any outgoing IPv6 connection. Take note that the requirement is to prevent the Internet from initiating an inbound IPv6 connection to your instance. This solution allows all kinds of traffic to initiate a connection to your EC2 instance hence, this option is wrong. In addition, the use of Traffic Mirroring is not appropriate as well. This is just an Amazon VPC feature that you can use to copy network traffic from an elastic network interface of type interface, not to filter or inspect the incoming/outgoing traffic. The option that says: Launch the EC2 instance to a private subnet and attach a NAT Gateway to the VPC to allow outbound IPv6 communication to the internet. Use AWS Firewall Manager to set up the required rules for traffic inspection and traffic filtering is incorrect. While NAT Gateway has a NAT64 feature that translates an IPv6 address to IPv4, it will not prevent inbound IPv6 traffic from reaching the EC2 instance. You have to use the egress-only Internet Gateway instead. Moreover, the AWS Firewall Manager is neither capable of doing traffic inspection nor traffic filtering. References: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/egress-only- internet-gateway.html https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/configure- subnets.html https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/VPC_Internet_Gateway.html Check out this Amazon VPC Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/amazon-vpc/ 11. QUESTION A company has multiple AWS Site-to-Site VPN connections placed between their VPCs and their remote network. During peak hours, many employees are experiencing slow connectivity issues, which limits their productivity. The company has asked a solutions architect to scale the throughput of the VPN connections. Which solution should the architect carry out? Modify the VPN configuration by increasing the number of tunnels to scale the throughput. Associate the VPCs to an Equal Cost Multipath Routing (ECMR)-enabled transit gateway and attach additional VPN tunnels. Re-route some of the VPN connections to a secondary customer gateway device on the remote network’s end. Add more virtual private gateways to a VPC and enable Equal Cost Multipath Routing (ECMR) to get higher VPN bandwidth. Correct With AWS Transit Gateway, you can simplify the connectivity between multiple VPCs and also connect to any VPC attached to AWS Transit Gateway with a single VPN connection. AWS Transit Gateway also enables you to scale the IPsec VPN throughput with equal-cost multi-path (ECMP) routing support over multiple VPN tunnels. A single VPN tunnel still has a maximum throughput of 1.25 Gbps. If you establish multiple VPN tunnels to an ECMP-enabled transit gateway, it can scale beyond the default limit of 1.25 Gbps. Hence, the correct answer is: Associate the VPCs to an Equal Cost Multipath Routing (ECMR)-enabled transit gateway and attach additional VPN tunnels. The option that says: Add more virtual private gateways to a VPC and enable Equal Cost Multipath Routing (ECMR) to get higher VPN bandwidth is incorrect because a VPC can only have a single virtual private gateway attached to it one at a time. Also, there is no option to enable ECMR in a virtual private gateway. The option that says: Modify the VPN configuration by increasing the number of tunnels to scale the throughput is incorrect. The maximum tunnel for a VPN connection is two. You cannot increase this beyond its limit. The option that says: Re-route some of the VPN connections to a secondary customer gateway device on the remote network’s end is incorrect. This would only increase connection redundancy and won’t increase throughput. For example, connections can fail over to the secondary customer gateway device in case the primary customer gateway device becomes unavailable. References: https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge- center/transit-gateway-ecmp-multiple-tunnels/ https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/networking-and-content- delivery/scaling-vpn-throughput-using-aws-transit-gateway/ Check out this AWS Transit Gateway Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-transit-gateway/ 12. QUESTION A company launched a cryptocurrency mining server on a Reserved EC2 instance in the us-east-1 region’s private subnet that uses IPv6. Due to the financial data that the server contains, the system should be secured to prevent any unauthorized access and to meet regulatory compliance requirements. In this scenario, which VPC feature will allow the EC2 instance to communicate to the Internet but prevents inbound IPv6 traffic? NAT Gateway NAT instances Internet Gateway Egress-only Internet gateway Correct An egress-only Internet gateway is a horizontally scaled, redundant, and highly available VPC component that allows outbound communication over IPv6 from instances in your VPC to the Internet, and prevents the Internet from initiating an IPv6 connection with your instances. Take note that an egress-only Internet gateway is for use with IPv6 traffic only. To enable outbound-only Internet communication over IPv4, use a NAT gateway instead. Hence, the correct answer is: Egress-only Internet gateway. NAT Gateway and NAT instances are incorrect. Although NAT64, a feature that enables the communication between IPv6 and IPv4 hosts, may be supported by these components, they are unable to block inbound IPv6 traffic. Both NAT 64 and egress-only gateways can be used to enable outbound Internet connectivity, for instances in a VPC, but they differ in their support for inbound traffic and their handling of IPv4 and IPv6 addresses. The most suitable VPC component to use is the scenario is the egress-only Internet gateway. Internet Gateway is incorrect because this is primarily used to provide Internet access to your instances in the public subnet of your VPC and not for private subnets. However, with an Internet gateway, traffic originating from the public Internet will also be able to reach your instances. The scenario is asking you to prevent inbound access, so this is not the correct answer. Reference: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/egress-only- internet-gateway.html Check out this Amazon VPC Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/amazon-vpc/ 13. QUESTION A Solutions Architect is working for an online hotel booking firm with terabytes of customer data coming from the websites and applications. There is an annual corporate meeting where the Architect needs to present the booking behavior and acquire new insights from the customers’ data. The Architect is looking for a service to perform super-fast analytics on massive data sets in near real-time. Which of the following services gives the Architect the ability to store huge amounts of data and perform quick and flexible queries on it? Amazon DynamoDB Amazon ElastiCache Amazon RDS Amazon Redshift Correct Amazon Redshift is a fast, scalable data warehouse that makes it simple and cost-effective to analyze all your data across your data warehouse and data lake. Redshift delivers ten times faster performance than other data warehouses by using machine learning, massively parallel query execution, and columnar storage on a high-performance disk. You can use Redshift to analyze all your data using standard SQL and your existing Business Intelligence (BI) tools. It also allows you to run complex analytic queries against terabytes to petabytes of structured and semi-structured data, using sophisticated query optimization, columnar storage on high- performance storage, and massively parallel query execution. Hence, the correct answer is Amazon Redshift. Amazon DynamoDB is incorrect because DynamoDB is a NoSQL database that is based on key-value pairs used for fast processing of small data that dynamically grows and changes. But if you need to scan large amounts of data (i.e., a lot of keys all in one query), the performance will not be optimal. Amazon ElastiCache is incorrect because this is used to increase the performance, speed, and redundancy with which applications can retrieve data by providing an in-memory database caching system, and not for database analytical processes. Amazon RDS is incorrect because this is mainly used for On- Line Transaction Processing (OLTP) applications and not for Online Analytics Processing (OLAP). References: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/mgmt/welcome.html https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/gsg/getting- started.html Amazon Redshift Overview: AAmmaazzoonn RReeddsshhiifftt OOvveerrvviieeww Check out this Amazon Redshift Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/amazon-redshift/ 14. QUESTION A company has hundreds of VPCs with multiple VPN connections to their data centers spanning 5 AWS Regions. As the number of its workloads grows, the company must be able to scale its networks across multiple accounts and VPCs to keep up. A Solutions Architect is tasked to interconnect all of the company’s on-premises networks, VPNs, and VPCs into a single gateway, which includes support for inter-region peering across multiple AWS regions. Which of the following is the BEST solution that the architect should set up to support the required interconnectivity? Set up an AWS Transit Gateway in each region to interconnect all networks within it. Then, route traffic between the transit gateways through a peering connection. Enable inter-region VPC peering that allows peering relationships to be established between multiple VPCs across different AWS regions. Set up a networking configuration that ensures that the traffic will always stay on the global AWS backbone and never traverse the public Internet. Set up an AWS Direct Connect Gateway to achieve inter-region VPC access to all of the AWS resources and on-premises data centers. Set up a link aggregation group (LAG) to aggregate multiple connections at a single AWS Direct Connect endpoint in order to treat them as a single, managed connection. Launch a virtual private gateway in each VPC and then create a public virtual interface for each AWS Direct Connect connection to the Direct Connect Gateway. Set up an AWS VPN CloudHub for inter-region VPC access and a Direct Connect gateway for the VPN connections to the on-premises data centers. Create a virtual private gateway in each VPC, then create a private virtual interface for each AWS Direct Connect connection to the Direct Connect gateway. Correct AWS Transit Gateway is a service that enables customers to connect their Amazon Virtual Private Clouds (VPCs) and their on-premises networks to a single gateway. As you grow the number of workloads running on AWS, you need to be able to scale your networks across multiple accounts and Amazon VPCs to keep up with the growth. Today, you can connect pairs of Amazon VPCs using peering. However, managing point-to-point connectivity across many Amazon VPCs without the ability to centrally manage the connectivity policies can be operationally costly and cumbersome. For on-premises connectivity, you need to attach your AWS VPN to each individual Amazon VPC. This solution can be time-consuming to build and hard to manage when the number of VPCs grows into the hundreds. With AWS Transit Gateway, you only have to create and manage a single connection from the central gateway to each Amazon VPC, on-premises data center, or remote office across your network. Transit Gateway acts as a hub that controls how traffic is routed among all the connected networks which act like spokes. This hub and spoke model significantly simplifies management and reduces operational costs because each network only has to connect to the Transit Gateway and not to every other network. Any new VPC is simply connected to the Transit Gateway and is then automatically available to every other network that is connected to the Transit Gateway. This ease of connectivity makes it easy to scale your network as you grow. It acts as a Regional virtual router for traffic flowing between your virtual private clouds (VPC) and VPN connections. A transit gateway scales elastically based on the volume of network traffic. Routing through a transit gateway operates at layer 3, where the packets are sent to a specific next-hop attachment, based on their destination IP addresses. A transit gateway attachment is both a source and a destination of packets. You can attach the following resources to your transit gateway: – One or more VPCs – One or more VPN connections – One or more AWS Direct Connect gateways – One or more transit gateway peering connections If you attach a transit gateway peering connection, the transit gateway must be in a different Region. Hence, the correct answer is: Set up an AWS Transit Gateway in each region to interconnect all networks within it. Then, route traffic between the transit gateways through a peering connection. The option that says: Set up an AWS Direct Connect Gateway to achieve inter-region VPC access to all of the AWS resources and on-premises data centers. Set up a link aggregation group (LAG) to aggregate multiple connections at a single AWS Direct Connect endpoint in order to treat them as a single, managed connection. Launch a virtual private gateway in each VPC and then create a public virtual interface for each AWS Direct Connect connection to the Direct Connect Gateway is incorrect. You can only create a private virtual interface to a Direct Connect gateway and not a public virtual interface. Using a link aggregation group (LAG) is also irrelevant in this scenario because it is just a logical interface that uses the Link Aggregation Control Protocol (LACP) to aggregate multiple connections at a single AWS Direct Connect endpoint, allowing you to treat them as a single, managed connection. The option that says: Enable inter-region VPC peering which allows peering relationships to be established between VPCs across different AWS regions. This will ensure that the traffic will always stay on the global AWS backbone and will never traverse the public Internet is incorrect. This would require a lot of manual set up and management overhead to successfully build a functional, error-free inter-region VPC network compared with just using a Transit Gateway. Although the Inter-Region VPC Peering provides a cost-effective way to share resources between regions or replicate data for geographic redundancy, its connections are not dedicated and highly available. Moreover, it doesn’t support the company’s on- premises data centers in multiple AWS Regions. The option that says: Set up an AWS VPN CloudHub for inter- region VPC access and a Direct Connect gateway for the VPN connections to the on-premises data centers. Create a virtual private gateway in each VPC, then create a private virtual interface for each AWS Direct Connect connection to the Direct Connect gateway is incorrect. This option doesn’t meet the requirement of interconnecting all of the company’s on- premises networks, VPNs, and VPCs into a single gateway, which includes support for inter-region peering across multiple AWS regions. As its name implies, the AWS VPN CloudHub is only for VPNs and not for VPCs. It is also not capable of managing hundreds of VPCs with multiple VPN connections to their data centers that span multiple AWS Regions. References: https://aws.amazon.com/transit-gateway/ https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/tgw/how-transit- gateways-work.html https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/networking-and-content- delivery/building-a-global-network-using-aws-transit-gateway- inter-region-peering/ Check out this AWS Transit Gateway Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-transit-gateway/ 15. QUESTION A commercial bank has a forex trading application. They created an Auto Scaling group of EC2 instances that allow the bank to cope with the current traffic and achieve cost-efficiency. They want the Auto Scaling group to behave in such a way that it will follow a predefined set of parameters before it scales down the number of EC2 instances, which protects the system from unintended slowdown or unavailability. Which of the following statements are true regarding the cooldown period? (Select TWO.) It ensures that the Auto Scaling group launches or terminates additional EC2 instances without any downtime. It ensures that the Auto Scaling group does not launch or terminate additional EC2 instances before the previous scaling activity takes effect. It ensures that before the Auto Scaling group scales out, the EC2 instances have an ample time to cooldown. Its default value is 600 seconds. Its default value is 300 seconds. Incorrect In Auto Scaling, the following statements are correct regarding the cooldown period: 1. It ensures that the Auto Scaling group does not launch or terminate additional EC2 instances before the previous scaling activity takes effect. 2. Its default value is 300 seconds. 3. It is a configurable setting for your Auto Scaling group. The following options are incorrect: – It ensures that before the Auto Scaling group scales out, the EC2 instances have ample time to cooldown. – It ensures that the Auto Scaling group launches or terminates additional EC2 instances without any downtime. – Its default value is 600 seconds. These statements are inaccurate and don’t depict what the word “cooldown” actually means for Auto Scaling. The cooldown period is a configurable setting for your Auto Scaling group that helps to ensure that it doesn’t launch or terminate additional instances before the previous scaling activity takes effect. After the Auto Scaling group dynamically scales using a simple scaling policy, it waits for the cooldown period to complete before resuming scaling activities. The figure below demonstrates the scaling cooldown: Reference: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/autoscaling/latest/userguide/as- instance-termination.html Check out this AWS Auto Scaling Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-auto-scaling/ Tutorials Dojo’s AWS Certified Solutions Architect Associate Exam Study Guide: https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-certified-solutions-architect- associate/ 16. QUESTION A healthcare provider is expanding its operations by integrating various specialized medical applications into its AWS environment. Each application must operate within its own isolated VPC to maintain compliance with data security regulations. These applications need to access a central VPC that hosts shared services. Additionally, the applications should be able to communicate with each other for data synchronization and reporting purposes. The healthcare provider plans to integrate dozens more applications over the next year. Which of the following will minimize administrative overhead while meeting these requirements? Establish VPN tunnels linking each application VPC and the shared services VPC. Configure routing in the application VPC subnets to enable communication with the shared services VPC. Implement an AWS Transit Gateway and connect it with the application VPCs and the shared services VPC. Update the route tables and add routes in the application VPCs and the shared services VPC to route traffic through the transit gateway. Connect the application VPCs and shared services VPC using the Amazon VPC peering connections. Configure the peering connection to add routes between the VPCs. Set up a connection between the application VPCs and the shared service VPC by using AWS Direct Connect. Update and add routes from the application VPCs to the shared services VPC and vice versa. Correct AWS Transit Gateway simplifies network architecture by serving as a central hub for connecting Amazon VPCs and on-premises networks. With its hub-and-spoke model, each VPC only needs to connect to the Transit Gateway to access other VPCs. This architecture reduces the complexity of managing multiple peering connections and routing tables. It supports IPv4 and IPv6 traffic and ensures secure, private connections without traversing the public internet. AWS Transit Gateway also enables traffic segmentation through multiple route tables, allowing for separate management of production and non-production environments. AWS Transit Gateway provides centralized control over your network traffic, enhancing visibility and security. It is highly scalable, accommodating growth without significant changes to the existing setup. Transit Gateways can be peered across regions, leveraging AWS’s global infrastructure for efficient and secure data transfer. This reduces administrative overhead significantly compared to managing numerous VPC peering connections or VPN tunnels. For companies scaling their network infrastructure, AWS Transit Gateway is more efficient than traditional methods like VPC peering or VPN connections. It centralizes and simplifies network management, which is crucial when dealing with a large number of applications and VPCs. Hence, the correct answer is: Implement an AWS Transit Gateway and connect it with the application VPCs and the shared services VPC. Update the route tables and add routes in the application VPCs and the shared services VPC to route traffic through the transit gateway. The option that says: Establish VPN tunnels linking each application VPC and the shared services VPC. Configure routing in the application VPC subnets to enable communication with the shared services VPC is incorrect. Establishing individual VPN tunnels for each VPC would create significant administrative overhead as the number of applications increases, making it less suitable for scalability. The option that says: Connect the application VPCs and shared services VPC using the Amazon VPC peering connections. Configure the peering connection to add routes between the VPCs is incorrect. While this option is feasible for a small number of applications, VPC peering does not efficiently scale in scenarios where many VPCs need to be interconnected due to the complexity of managing numerous paired connections. The option that says: Set up a connection between the application VPCs and the shared service VPC by using AWS Direct Connect. Update and add routes from the application VPCs to the shared services VPC and vice versa is incorrect. AWS Direct Connect is primarily used for connecting on- premises environments to AWS, not for inter-VPC communication within AWS, which is the primary requirement in this scenario. References: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/tgw/what-is-transit- gateway.html https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/tgw/tgw-getting- started.html Check out these AWS Transit Gateway and Amazon VPC Cheat Sheets: https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-transit-gateway/ https://tutorialsdojo.com/amazon-vpc/ 17. QUESTION An intelligence agency is currently hosting a learning and training portal in AWS. Your manager instructed you to launch a large EC2 instance with an attached EBS Volume and enable Enhanced Networking. What are the valid case scenarios in using Enhanced Networking? (Select TWO.) When you need a low packet-per-second performance When you need a higher packet per second (PPS) performance When you need a dedicated connection to your on- premises data center When you need a consistently lower inter-instance latencies When you need high latency networking Correct Enhanced networking uses single root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV) to provide high-performance networking capabilities on supported instance types. SR-IOV is a method of device virtualization that provides higher I/O performance and lower CPU utilization when compared to traditional virtualized network interfaces. Enhanced networking provides higher bandwidth, higher packet per second (PPS) performance, and consistently lower inter-instance latencies. There is no additional charge for using enhanced networking. The option that says: When you need a low packet-per- second performance is incorrect because you want to increase packet-per-second performance and not lower it when you enable enhanced networking. The option that says: When you need high latency networking is incorrect because higher latencies mean a slower network, which is the opposite of what you want to happen when you enable enhanced networking. The option that says: When you need a dedicated connection to your on-premises data center is incorrect because enabling enhanced networking does not provide a dedicated connection to your on-premises data center. Use AWS Direct Connect or enable VPN tunneling instead for this purpose. Reference: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/enhanced- networking.html Check out this Amazon EC2 Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/amazon-elastic-compute-cloud-amazon- ec2/ 18. QUESTION An online shopping platform is hosted on an Auto Scaling group of On-Demand EC2 instances with a default Auto Scaling termination policy and no instance protection configured. The system is deployed across three Availability Zones in the US West region (us-west-1) with an Application Load Balancer in front to provide high availability and fault tolerance for the shopping platform. The us-west-1a, us-west-1b, and us-west-1c Availability Zones have 10, 8 and 7 running instances respectively. Due to the low number of incoming traffic, the scale-in operation has been triggered. Which of the following will the Auto Scaling group do to determine which instance to terminate first in this scenario? (Select THREE.) Select the instances with the oldest launch template. Choose the Availability Zone with the most number of instances, which is the us-west-1a Availability Zone in this scenario. Select the instance that is closest to the next billing hour. Select the instance that is farthest to the next billing hour. Choose the Availability Zone with the least number of instances, which is the us-west-1c Availability Zone in this scenario. Select the instances with the most recent launch template. Correct The default termination policy is designed to help ensure that your network architecture spans Availability Zones evenly. With the default termination policy, the behavior of the Auto Scaling group is as follows: 1. If there are instances in multiple Availability Zones, choose the Availability Zone with the most instances and at least one instance that is not protected from scale in. If there is more than one Availability Zone with this number of instances, choose the Availability Zone with the instances that use the oldest launch template. 2. Determine which unprotected instances in the selected Availability Zone use the oldest launch template. If there is one such instance, terminate it. 3. If there are multiple instances to terminate based on the above criteria, determine which unprotected instances are closest to the next billing hour. (This helps you maximize the use of your EC2 instances and manage your Amazon EC2 usage costs.) If there is one such instance, terminate it. 4. If there is more than one unprotected instance closest to the next billing hour, choose one of these instances at random. The following flow diagram illustrates how the default termination policy works: Hence, the correct answers are: – Choose the Availability Zone with the most number of instances, which is the us-west-1a Availability Zone in this scenario. – Select the instances with the oldest launch template. – Select the instance that is closest to the next billing hour. The option that says: Choose the Availability Zone with the least number of instances, which is the us-west-1c Availability Zone in this scenario is incorrect as a result of the default termination policy being used by Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling. The Availability Zone with the most instances will be terminated. The option that says: Select the instances with the most recent launch template is incorrect since Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling uses the default termination policy if you did not apply a specific termination policy to the group. The instance that was launched from the oldest launch template or launch template will be terminated. The option that says: Select the instance that is farthest to the next billing hour is incorrect because instances that are closest to the next billing hour will be terminated by default. This rule enables you to get the most out of your hourly-charged instances. Reference: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/autoscaling/ec2/userguide/as- instance-termination.html#default-termination-policy Check out this AWS Auto Scaling Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-auto-scaling/ 19. QUESTION A company has an On-Demand EC2 instance located in a subnet in AWS that hosts a web application. The security group attached to this EC2 instance has the following Inbound Rules: The Route table attached to the VPC is shown below. You can establish an SSH connection into the EC2 instance from the Internet. However, you are not able to connect to the web server using your Chrome browser. Which of the below steps would resolve the issue? In the Route table, add this new route entry: 10.0.0.0/27 -> local In the Security Group, add an Inbound HTTP rule. In the Security Group, remove the SSH rule. In the Route table, add this new route entry: 0.0.0.0 - > igw-b51618cc Correct In this particular scenario, you can already connect to the EC2 instance via SSH. This means that there is no problem in the Route Table of your VPC. To fix this issue, you simply need to update your Security Group and add an Inbound rule to allow HTTP traffic. The option that says: In the Security Group, remove the SSH rule is incorrect as doing so will not solve the issue. It will just disable SSH traffic that is already available. The options that say: In the Route table, add this new route entry: 0.0.0.0 -> igw-b51618cc and In the Route table, add this new route entry: 10.0.0.0/27 -> local are incorrect as there is no need to change the Route Tables. Reference: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonVPC/latest/UserGuide/VPC_SecurityGroups.h Check out this Amazon VPC Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/amazon-vpc/ 20. QUESTION A financial services company plans to migrate its trading application from on-premises Microsoft Windows Server to Amazon Web Services (AWS). The solution must ensure high availability across multiple Availability Zones and offer low-latency access to block storage. Which of the following solutions will fulfill these requirements? Deploy the trading application on Amazon EC2 Windows Server instances across two Availability Zones. Use Amazon Elastic File System (Amazon EFS) to provide shared storage between the instances. Configure Amazon EFS with cross-region replication to sync data across Availability Zones. Configure the trading application on Amazon EC2 Windows Server instances across two Availability Zones. Use Amazon FSx for NetApp ONTAP to create a Multi-AZ file system and access the data via iSCSI protocol. Configure the trading application on Amazon EC2 Windows instances across two Availability Zones. Use Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) for storage and configure cross-region replication to sync data between S3 buckets in each Availability Zone. Deploy the trading application on Amazon EC2 Windows Server instances across two Availability Zones. Use Amazon FSx for Windows File Server for shared storage. Correct Amazon FSx for NetApp ONTAP is a fully managed AWS service that provides high-performance, scalable file storage based on NetApp’s ONTAP file system. It offers versatile storage options, supporting both file (NFS, SMB) and block (iSCSI) protocols, making it compatible with Windows, Linux, and macOS environments. The Amazon FSx for NetApp ONTAP features Multi-AZ file systems designed to ensure continuous availability across AWS Availability Zones, providing high availability for your Windows Server workloads. It offers consistent sub-millisecond file operation latencies with SSD storage, essential for block storage workloads in Windows environments. FSx for NetApp ONTAP fully supports block storage protocols like iSCSI, commonly used in Windows Server settings, and it works seamlessly with the SMB protocol, ensuring compatibility with Windows Server and related applications. Moreover, FSx for NetApp ONTAP simplifies migrating from on- premises NetApp systems to AWS for users currently utilizing NetApp storage. It can scale to accommodate petabyte-scale datasets, making it suitable for large Windows Server environments. Hence, the correct answer is: Configure the trading application on Amazon EC2 Windows Server instances across two Availability Zones. Use Amazon FSx for NetApp ONTAP to create a Multi-AZ file system and access the data via iSCSI protocol. The option that says: Deploy the trading application on Amazon EC2 Windows Server instances across two Availability Zones. Use Amazon FSx for Windows File Server for shared storage is incorrect. Amazon FSx for Windows File Server only provides shared, low-latency file storage for Windows environments. It doesn’t support low-latency access to shared block storage. The option that says: Deploy the trading application on Amazon EC2 Windows Server instances across two Availability Zones. Use Amazon Elastic File System (Amazon EFS) to provide shared storage between the instances. Configure Amazon EFS with cross-region replication to sync data across Availability Zones is incorrect. While this option provides high availability across AZs, Amazon EFS is not optimized for Windows workloads and doesn’t offer low-latency block storage. The option that says: Configure the trading application on Amazon EC2 Windows instances across two Availability Zones. Use Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) for storage and configure cross-region replication to sync data between S3 buckets in each Availability Zone is incorrect. While this option provides high availability across AZs, Amazon S3 is primarily an object storage, not block storage. It doesn’t offer the low-latency access required for a trading application. References: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/fsx/latest/ONTAPGuide/what-is- fsx-ontap.html https://docs.aws.amazon.com/fsx/latest/ONTAPGuide/high- availability-AZ.html Check out this Amazon FSx Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/amazon-fsx/ 21. QUESTION A company is in the process of migrating their applications to AWS. One of their systems requires a database that can scale globally and handle frequent schema changes. The application should not have any downtime or performance issues whenever there is a schema change in the database. It should also provide a low latency response to high-traffic queries. Which is the most suitable database solution to use to achieve this requirement? Amazon DynamoDB An Amazon RDS instance in Multi-AZ Deployments configuration Redshift An Amazon Aurora database with Read Replicas Correct Before we proceed in answering this question, we must first be clear with the actual definition of a “schema“. Basically, the english definition of a schema is: a representation of a plan or theory in the form of an outline or model. Just think of a schema as the “structure” or a “model” of your data in your database. Since the scenario requires that the schema, or the structure of your data, changes frequently, then you have to pick a database which provides a non-rigid and flexible way of adding or removing new types of data. This is a classic example of choosing between a relational database and non-relational (NoSQL) database. A relational database is known for having a rigid schema, with a lot of constraints and limits as to which (and what type of ) data can be inserted or not. It is primarily used for scenarios where you have to support complex queries which fetch data across a number of tables. It is best for scenarios where you have complex table relationships but for use cases where you need to have a flexible schema, this is not a suitable database to use. For NoSQL, it is not as rigid as a relational database because you can easily add or remove rows or elements in your table/collection entry. It also has a more flexible schema because it can store complex hierarchical data within a single item which, unlike a relational database, does not entail changing multiple related tables. Hence, the best answer to be used here is a NoSQL database, like DynamoDB. When your business requires a low-latency response to high-traffic queries, taking advantage of a NoSQL system generally makes technical and economic sense. Amazon DynamoDB helps solve the problems that limit the relational system scalability by avoiding them. In DynamoDB, you design your schema specifically to make the most common and important queries as fast and as inexpensive as possible. Your data structures are tailored to the specific requirements of your business use cases. Remember that a relational database system does not scale well for the following reasons: – It normalizes data and stores it on multiple tables that require multiple queries to write to disk. – It generally incurs the performance costs of an ACID- compliant transaction system. – It uses expensive joins to reassemble required views of query results. For DynamoDB, it scales well due to these reasons: – Its schema flexibility lets DynamoDB store complex hierarchical data within a single item. DynamoDB is not a totally schemaless database since the very definition of a schema is just the model or structure of your data. – Composite key design lets it store related items close together on the same table. An Amazon RDS instance in Multi-AZ Deployments configuration and an Amazon Aurora database with Read Replicas are incorrect because both of them are a type of relational database. Redshift is incorrect because it is primarily used for OLAP systems. References: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/bp- general-nosql-design.html https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/bp- relational-modeling.html https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/SQLtoNoSQ Also check the AWS Certified Solutions Architect Official Study Guide: Associate Exam 1st Edition and turn to page 161 which talks about NoSQL Databases. Check out this Amazon DynamoDB Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/amazon-dynamodb Tutorials Dojo’s AWS Certified Solutions Architect Associate Exam Study Guide: https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-certified-solutions-architect- associate/ 22. QUESTION A company operates a data lake on Amazon S3, integrating data in Apache Parquet format from various sources. To enhance the data for analysis, the company employs multiple transformation steps. These include filtering anomalies, standardizing date and time formats, and generating analytical aggregates. The transformed data is stored in S3 buckets for access by data analysts. The company seeks a pre-built, non-coding solution for these data transformations. This solution must include data lineage and profiling features. Additionally, the data transformation steps must be transparent and shareable across the entire organization. What is the most suitable AWS solution to fulfill these specific needs? Utilize AWS Glue DataBrew for the data transformation tasks. Make the transformation steps available to employees through the use of DataBrew recipes. Set up Amazon EMR to manage data transformation. Document and share the transformation steps with employees through EMR Studio notebooks. Leverage AWS Glue Studio's visual interface for data transformation. Distribute the transformation process across the organization by utilizing AWS Glue jobs. Query data using Amazon Athena to execute the data transformation using SQL queries. Facilitate the sharing of these Athena SQL queries among employees. Correct AWS Glue DataBrew is essentially a no-code tool that streamlines the process of preparing data for analysis and machine learning. It’s especially valuable for data professionals looking to clean, normalize, and transform their data more efficiently. One of the standout features of DataBrew is its ability to cut down data preparation time by up to 80% compared to traditional manual methods. This efficiency boost not only accelerates the data preparation process but also allows data analysts and scientists to focus more on extracting insights rather than getting stuck in the initial stages of data processing. Hence, the correct answer is: Utilize AWS Glue DataBrew for the data transformation tasks. Make the transformation steps available to employees through the use of DataBrew recipes. The option that says: Leverage AWS Glue Studio’s visual interface for data transformation. Distribute the transformation process across the organization by utilizing AWS Glue jobs is incorrect because it only suggests using AWS Glue Studio’s visual interface for data transformations, which supports non-coding transformations and could be shared via AWS Glue jobs. However, it doesn’t specifically address the requirements for data profiling or data lineage as directly as DataBrew does. The option that says: Query data using Amazon Athena to execute the data transformation using SQL queries. Facilitate the sharing of these Athena SQL queries among employees is incorrect because Amazon Athena primarily serves as an interactive query service and lacks the built-in, visual data transformation, data lineage, and profiling capabilities that DataBrew offers. Sharing Athena SQL queries does not provide the same level of collaboration or ease of use for non- technical users as DataBrew recipes. The option that says: Set up Amazon EMR to manage data transformation. Document and share the transformation steps with employees through EMR Studio notebooks is incorrect because this option simply requires technical expertise, which contradicts the scenario’s requirement for a non-coding solution. Additionally, EMR does not offer built-in data profiling and lineage tracking, which is essential for easy management and transparency, making it less suitable compared to AWS Glue DataBrew, which meets these needs directly. References: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/databrew/latest/dg/what-is.html https://docs.aws.amazon.com/prescriptive- guidance/latest/serverless-etl-aws-glue/databrew.html Check out this AWS Glue Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-glue/#glue-databrew 23. QUESTION There is a technical requirement by a financial firm that does online credit card processing to have a secure application environment on AWS. They are trying to decide on whether to use KMS or CloudHSM. Which of the following statements is right when it comes to CloudHSM and KMS? AWS CloudHSM should always be used for any payment transactions. No major difference. They both do the same thing. If you want a managed service for creating and controlling your encryption keys but don't want or need to operate your own HSM, consider using AWS CloudHSM. You should consider using AWS CloudHSM over AWS KMS if you require your keys stored in dedicated, third-party validated hardware security modules under your exclusive control. Correct AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) is a managed service that makes it easy for you to create and control the encryption keys used to encrypt your data. The master keys that you create in AWS KMS are protected by FIPS 140-2 validated cryptographic modules. AWS KMS is integrated with most other AWS services that encrypt your data with encryption keys that you manage. AWS KMS is also integrated with AWS CloudTrail to provide encryption key usage logs to help meet your auditing, regulatory and compliance needs. By using AWS KMS, you gain more control over access to data you encrypt. You can use the key management and cryptographic features directly in your applications or through AWS services that are integrated with AWS KMS. Whether you are writing applications for AWS or using AWS services, AWS KMS enables you to maintain control over who can use your customer master keys and gain access to your encrypted data. AWS KMS is integrated with AWS CloudTrail, a service that delivers log files to an Amazon S3 bucket that you designate. By using CloudTrail, you can monitor and investigate how and when your master keys have been used and by whom. If you want a managed service for creating and controlling your encryption keys, but you don’t want or need to operate your own HSM, consider using AWS Key Management Service. Hence, the correct answer is: You should consider using AWS CloudHSM over AWS KMS if you require your keys stored in dedicated, third-party validated hardware security modules under your exclusive control. The option that says: No major difference. They both do the same thing is incorrect because KMS and CloudHSM are two different services. If you want a managed service for creating and controlling your encryption keys without operating your own HSM, you have to consider using AWS Key Management Service. The option that says: If you want a managed service for creating and controlling your encryption keys, but you don’t want or need to operate your own HSM, consider using AWS CloudHSM is incorrect because you have to consider using AWS KMS if you want a managed service for creating and controlling your encryption keys, without operating your own HSM. The option that says: AWS CloudHSM should always be used for any payment transactions is incorrect because this is not always the case. AWS CloudHSM is a cloud-based hardware security module (HSM) that enables you to easily generate and use your own encryption keys on the AWS Cloud. References: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/overview.html https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/concepts.html#data- keys https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloudhsm/latest/userguide/introduction.html Check out this AWS Key Management Service (KMS) Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-key-management-service-aws-kms/ 24. QUESTION A Solutions Architect designed a serverless architecture that allows AWS Lambda to access an Amazon DynamoDB table named tutorialsdojo in the US East (N. Virginia) region. The IAM policy attached to a Lambda function allows it to put and delete items in the table. The policy must be updated to only allow two operations in the tutorialsdojo table and prevent other DynamoDB tables from being modified. Which of the following IAM policies fulfill this requirement and follow the principle of granting the least privilege? { "Version": "2012-10-17", "Statement": [ { "Sid": "TutorialsdojoTablePolicy", "Effect": "Allow", "Action": [ "dynamodb:PutItem", "dynamodb:DeleteItem" ], "Resource": "arn:aws:dynamodb:us-east- 1:120618981206:table/*" } ] } { "Version": "2012-10-17", "Statement": [ { "Sid": "TutorialsdojoTablePolicy", "Effect": "Allow", "Action": [ "dynamodb:PutItem", "dynamodb:DeleteItem" ], "Resource": "arn:aws:dynamodb:us-east- 1:120618981206:table/tutorialsdojo" } ] } { "Version": "2012-10-17", "Statement": [ { "Sid": "TutorialsdojoTablePolicy1", "Effect": "Allow", "Action": [ "dynamodb:PutItem", "dynamodb:DeleteItem" ], "Resource": "arn:aws:dynamodb:us-east- 1:1206189812061898:table/tutorialsdojo" }, { "Sid": "TutorialsdojoTablePolicy2", "Effect": "Deny", "Action": "dynamodb:*", "Resource": "arn:aws:dynamodb:us-east- 1:1206189812061898:table/*" } ] } { "Version": "2012-10-17", "Statement": [ { "Sid": "TutorialsdojoTablePolicy1", "Effect": "Allow", "Action": [ "dynamodb:PutItem", "dynamodb:DeleteItem" ], "Resource": "arn:aws:dynamodb:us-east- 1:1206189812061898:table/tutorialsdojo" }, { "Sid": "TutorialsdojoTablePolicy2", "Effect": "Allow", "Action": "dynamodb:*", "Resource": "arn:aws:dynamodb:us-east- 1:1206189812061898:table/tutorialsdojo" } ] } Correct Every AWS resource is owned by an AWS account, and permissions to create or access a resource are governed by permissions policies. An account administrator can attach permissions policies to IAM identities (that is, users, groups, and roles), and some services (such as AWS Lambda) also support attaching permissions policies to resources. In DynamoDB, the primary resources are tables. DynamoDB also supports additional resource types, indexes, and streams. However, you can create indexes and streams only in the context of an existing DynamoDB table. These are referred to as subresources. These resources and subresources have unique Amazon Resource Names (ARNs) associated with them. For example, an AWS Account (123456789012) has a DynamoDB table named Books in the US East (N. Virginia) (us- east-1) region. The ARN of the Books table would be: arn:aws:dynamodb:us-east- 1:123456789012:table/Books A policy is an entity that, when attached to an identity or resource, defines their permissions. By using an IAM policy and role to control access, it will grant a Lambda function access to a DynamoDB table. It is stated in the scenario that a Lambda function will be used to modify the DynamoDB table named tutorialsdojo. Since you only need to access one table, you will need to indicate that table in the resource element of the IAM policy. Also, you must specify the effect and action elements that will be generated in the policy. Hence, the correct answer in this scenario is: { "Version": "2012-10-17", "Statement": [ { "Sid": "TutorialsdojoTablePolicy", "Effect": "Allow", "Action": [ "dynamodb:PutItem", "dynamodb:DeleteItem" ], "Resource": "arn:aws:dynamodb:us-east- 1:120618981206:table/tutorialsdojo" } ] } The IAM policy below is incorrect because the scenario only requires you to allow the permissions in the tutorialsdojo table. Having a wildcard: table/* in this policy would allow the Lambda function to modify all the DynamoDB tables in your account. { "Version": "2012-10-17", "Statement": [ { "Sid": "TutorialsdojoTablePolicy", "Effect": "Allow", "Action": [ "dynamodb:PutItem", "dynamodb:DeleteItem" ], "Resource": "arn:aws:dynamodb:us-east- 1:120618981206:table/*" } ] } The IAM policy below is incorrect. The first statement is correctly allowing PUT and DELETE actions to the tutorialsdojo DynamoDB table. In addition to granting the two correct actions on the tutorialsdojo table, AmazonDynamoDBFullAccess is also included. That managed policy grants full administrative rights to all DynamoDB resources, defeating the purpose of least privilege and is far too permissive. { "Version": "2012-10-17", "Statement": [ { "Sid": "TutorialsdojoTablePolicy1", "Effect": "Allow", "Action": [ "dynamodb:PutItem", "dynamodb:DeleteItem" ], "Resource": "arn:aws:dynamodb:us-east- 1:1206189812061898:table/tutorialsdojo" }, { "Sid": "TutorialsdojoTablePolicy2", "Effect": "Allow", "Action": "dynamodb:*", "Resource": "arn:aws:dynamodb:us-east- 1:1206189812061898:table/tutorialsdojo" } ] } The IAM policy below is incorrect. Just like the previous option, the first statement of this policy is correctly allowing PUT and DELETE actions to the tutorialsdojo DynamoDB table. However, the second statement counteracts the first one as it denies all DynamoDB actions. Therefore, this policy will not allow any actions on all DynamoDB tables of the AWS account. { "Version": "2012-10-17", "Statement": [ { "Sid": "TutorialsdojoTablePolicy1", "Effect": "Allow", "Action": [ "dynamodb:PutItem", "dynamodb:DeleteItem" ], "Resource": "arn:aws:dynamodb:us-east- 1:1206189812061898:table/tutorialsdojo" }, { "Sid": "TutorialsdojoTablePolicy2", "Effect": "Deny", "Action": "dynamodb:*", "Resource": "arn:aws:dynamodb:us-east- 1:1206189812061898:table/*" } ] } References: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/using- identity-based-policies.html https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/reference_policies_examples_l access-dynamodb.html https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/security/how-to-create-an-aws- iam-policy-to-grant-aws-lambda-access-to-an-amazon- dynamodb-table/ Check out this AWS IAM Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-identity-and-access-management- iam/ 25. QUESTION A Solutions Architect needs to make sure that the On-Demand Amazon EC2 instance can only be accessed from this IP address (110.238.98.71) via an SSH connection. Which configuration below will satisfy this requirement? Security Group Outbound Rule: Protocol – UDP, Port Range – 22, Destination 0.0.0.0/0 Security Group Outbound Rule: Protocol – TCP, Port Range – 22, Destination 110.238.98.71/32 Security Group Inbound Rule: Protocol – UDP, Port Range – 22, Source 110.238.98.71/32 Security Group Inbound Rule: Protocol – TCP, Port Range – 22, Source 110.238.98.71/32 Correct A security group acts as a virtual firewall for your instance to control inbound and outbound traffic. When you launch an instance in a VPC, you can assign up to five security groups to the instance. Security groups act at the instance level, not the subnet level. Therefore, each instance in a subnet in your VPC can be assigned to a different set of security groups. The requirement is to only allow the individual IP of the client and not the entire network. The /32 CIDR notation denotes a single IP address. Take note that the SSH protocol uses TCP, not UDP, and runs on port 22 (default). In the scenario, we can create a security group with an inbound rule allowing incoming traffic from the specified IP address on port 22. Security groups are stateful, meaning they automatically allow return traffic associated with the client who initiated the connection to the instance. Therefore, any return traffic from the specified IP address on port 22 will be allowed to pass through the security group, regardless of whether or not there is an explicit outbound rule allowing it. Hence, the correct answer is: Security Group Inbound Rule: Protocol – TCP, Port Range – 22, Source 110.238.98.71/32 The option that says: Security Group Inbound Rule: Protocol – UDP, Port Range – 22, Source 110.238.98.71/32 is incorrect because it typically uses UDP instead of TCP. SSH runs over the TCP protocol, so specifying UDP would not allow the desired access. The option that says: Security Group Outbound Rule: Protocol – TCP, Port Range – 22, Destination 110.238.98.71/32 is incorrect because it’s an outbound rule, not an inbound rule. Outbound rules control traffic leaving the instance. In the scenario, we need to limit inbound traffic coming from a specific address. The option that says: Security Group Outbound Rule: Protocol – UDP, Port Range – 22, Destination 0.0.0.0/0 is incorrect because it is an outbound rule rather than an inbound rule. Moreover, SSH connections only require TCP. References: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using- network-security.html#security-group-rules https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/ Tutorials Dojo’s AWS Certified Solutions Architect Associate Exam Study Guide: https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-certified-solutions-architect- associate/ Check out this Amazon EC2 Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/amazon-elastic-compute-cloud-amazon- ec2/ 26. QUESTION An aerospace engineering company recently adopted a hybrid cloud infrastructure with AWS. One of the responsibilities of the Solutions Architect is to launch an Amazon VPC with both public and private subnets for Amazon EC2 instances and database instances. The architecture must ensure each subnet is properly defined within the assigned VPC CIDR block. Which of the following statements are true regarding VPC subnets? (Select TWO.) Each newly created subnet is, by default, linked to the main route table of the VPC. Each subnet maps to a single Availability Zone. EC2 instances in a private subnet can communicate with the Internet only if they have an Elastic IP. The allowed block size in VPC is between a /16 netmask (65,536 IP addresses) and /27 netmask (32 IP addresses). Each subnet spans 2 Availability Zones. Correct A VPC spans all the Availability Zones in the region. After creating a VPC, you can add one or more subnets in each Availability Zone. When you create a subnet, you specify the CIDR block for the subnet, which is a subset of the VPC CIDR block. Each subnet must reside entirely within one Availability Zone and cannot span zones. Availability Zones are distinct locations that are engineered to be isolated from failures in other Availability Zones. By launching instances in separate Availability Zones, you can protect your applications from the failure of a single location. Hence, the correct answers are: – Each subnet maps to a single Availability Zone – Each newly created subnet is, by default, linked to the main route table of the VPC. The option that says: EC2 instances in a private subnet can communicate with the Internet only if they have an Elastic IP is incorrect. EC2 instances in a private subnet can communicate with the Internet not just by having an Elastic IP, but also with a public IP address via a NAT Instance or a NAT Gateway. Take note that there is a distinction between private and public IP addresses. To enable communication with the Internet, a public IPv4 address is mapped to the primary private IPv4 address through network address translation (NAT). The option that says: The allowed block size in VPC is between a /16 netmask (65,536 IP addresses) and /27 netmask (32 IP addresses) is incorrect because the allowed block size in VPC is between a /16 netmask (65,536 IP addresses) and /28 netmask (16 IP addresses) and not /27 netmask. The option that says: Each subnet spans 2 Availability Zones is incorrect because each subnet must reside only within one Availability Zone and cannot span zones. References: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonVPC/latest/UserGuide/VPC_Subnets.html https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/vpc-ip- addressing.html Check out this Amazon VPC Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/amazon-vpc/ Tutorials Dojo’s AWS Certified Solutions Architect Associate Exam Study Guide: https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-certified-solutions-architect- associate-saa-c03/ 27. QUESTION An animation studio uses high-performance computing (HPC) servers for rendering gigabytes of video data. The studio are planning to migrate their environment to AWS and are in need of a highly available parallel file system for asset storage. The file system will be accessed concurrently by a fleet of EC2 instances and must be capable of sustained throughput. Which AWS storage solution should the solutions architect recommend? Amazon FSx for Lustre with Scratch file system Amazon Elastic File System (EFS) with Elastic Throughput mode Amazon File Cache Amazon FSx for Lustre with Persistent file system Correct Amazon FSx for Lustre is an ideal solution for the animation studio’s requirements. FSx for Lustre provides a fully managed, high-performance, scalable storage service, specifically designed for compute-intensive workloads like 3D animation rendering. It offers shared storage with sub-millisecond latencies and can deliver up to terabytes per second of throughput, crucial for handling hundreds of gigabytes of data daily as in the studio’s case. The persistent file system variant of FSx for Lustre is particularly suited for workloads that run for extended periods or indefinitely, providing highly available and durable storage. Data on persistent file systems is automatically replicated within the same Availability Zone, ensuring high availability and durability. This is crucial for the studio, as they require a solution that can accommodate both scratch (temporary storage and shorter-term processing) and persistent (longer-term storage and throughput- focused workloads) file systems. Hence the correct answer is: Amazon FSx for Lustre with Persistent file system. The option that says: Amazon Elastic File System (EFS) with Elastic Throughput mode is incorrect because while Amazon EFS with Elastic Throughput mode provides a scalable file storage solution capable of adapting its throughput to the changing performance needs, it may not consistently deliver the high levels of throughput and low latency required for the most demanding high-performance computing (HPC) workloads. EFS is designed for a broad range of use cases, including web serving, content management, and home directories, but it lacks the specialized, high-performance parallel file system capabilities that Amazon FSx for Lustre offers, making it less suited for large- scale 3D animation rendering tasks that demand optimal performance. The option that says: Amazon FSx for Lustre with Scratch file system is incorrect because while FSx for Lustre scratch file systems are optimized for high-performance computing applications and provide high throughput and low latency, they are designed for temporary storage and are not intended for long-term persistence. Scratch file systems do not replicate data and do not guarantee data persistence in the event of a file server failure, which could pose a risk to long-term projects or data that requires high availability and durability. This characteristic makes them less suitable for use cases where data persistence and high availability are critical requirements alongside performance. The option that says: Amazon File Cache is incorrect because Amazon File Cache is designed to accelerate file-based workloads by providing a high-speed caching layer for data stored in Amazon S3 or on-premises storage systems. While it offers sub-millisecond access times and can scale throughput to meet the demands of compute-intensive workloads, it primarily serves as a temporary storage solution to enhance performance for read-heavy or bursty access patterns. Amazon File Cache does not provide a primary storage solution with the durability and data management features required for comprehensive high-performance computing tasks like rendering large-scale 3D animations, where both high performance and data persistence are essential. Resources: https://aws.amazon.com/fsx/lustre/features https://docs.amazonaws.cn/en_us/fsx/latest/LustreGuide/using- fsx-lustre.html https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/storage/performance-analysis-for- different-amazon-efs-throughput-modes-via-amazon-cloudwatch/ Check out this Amazon FSx Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/amazon-fsx/ 28. QUESTION A Solutions Architect working for a startup is designing a High Performance Computing (HPC) application which is publicly accessible for their customers. The startup founders want to mitigate distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks on their application. Which of the following options are not suitable to be implemented in this scenario? (Select TWO.) Use an Application Load Balancer with Auto Scaling groups for your EC2 instances. Prevent direct Internet traffic to your Amazon RDS database by deploying it to a new private subnet. Add multiple Elastic Fabric Adapters (EFA) to each EC2 instance to increase the network bandwidth. Use Dedicated EC2 instances to ensure that each instance has the maximum performance possible. Use AWS Shield and AWS WAF. Use an Amazon CloudFront service for distributing both static and dynamic content. Correct Take note that the question asks about the viable mitigation techniques that are NOT suitable to prevent Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attack. A Denial of Service (DoS) attack is an attack that can make your website or application unavailable to end users. To achieve this, attackers use a variety of techniques that consume network or other resources, disrupting access for legitimate end users. To protect your system from DDoS attack, you can do the following: – Use an Amazon CloudFront service for distributing both static and dynamic content. – Use an Application Load Balancer with Auto Scaling groups for your EC2 instances. Prevent direct Internet traffic to your Amazon RDS database by deploying it to a new private subnet. – Set up alerts in Amazon CloudWatch to look for high Network In and CPU utilization metrics. Services that are available within AWS Regions, like Elastic Load Balancing and Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2), allow you to build Distributed Denial of Service resiliency and scale to handle unexpected volumes of traffic within a given region. Services that are available in AWS edge locations, like Amazon CloudFront, AWS WAF, Amazon Route53, and Amazon API Gateway, allow you to take advantage of a global network of edge locations that can provide your application with greater fault tolerance and increased scale for managing larger volumes of traffic. In addition, you can also use AWS Shield and AWS WAF to fortify your cloud network. AWS Shield is a managed DDoS protection service that is available in two tiers: Standard and Advanced. AWS Shield Standard applies always-on detection and inline mitigation techniques, such as deterministic packet filtering and priority-based traffic shaping, to minimize application downtime and latency. AWS WAF is a web application firewall that helps protect web applications from common web exploits that could affect application availability, compromise security, or consume excessive resources. You can use AWS WAF to define customizable web security rules that control which traffic accesses your web applications. If you use AWS Shield Advanced, you can use AWS WAF at no extra cost for those protected resources and can engage the DRT to create WAF rules. Using Dedicated EC2 instances to ensure that each instance has the maximum performance possible is not a viable mitigation technique because Dedicated EC2 instances are just an instance billing option. Although it may ensure that each instance gives the maximum performance, that by itself is not enough to mitigate a DDoS attack. Adding multiple Elastic Fabric Adapters (EFA) to each EC2 instance to increase the network bandwidth is also not a viable option as this is mainly done for performance improvement and not for DDoS attack mitigation. Moreover, you can attach only one EFA per EC2 instance. An Elastic Fabric Adapter (EFA) is a network device that you can attach to your Amazon EC2 instance to accelerate High-Performance Computing (HPC) and machine learning applications. The following options are valid mitigation techniques that can be used to prevent DDoS: – Use an Amazon CloudFront service for distributing both static and dynamic content. – Use an Application Load Balancer with Auto Scaling groups for your EC2 instances. Prevent direct Internet traffic to your Amazon RDS database by deploying it to a new private subnet. – Use AWS Shield and AWS WAF. References: https://aws.amazon.com/answers/networking/aws-ddos-attack- mitigation/ https://d0.awsstatic.com/whitepapers/DDoS_White_Paper_June2015.pdf Best practices on DDoS Attack Mitigation: BBeesstt PPrraaccttiicceess ffoorr DDDDooSS MMiittiiggaattiioonn oonn AAWWSS 29. QUESTION A company has clients all across the globe that access product files stored in several Amazon S3 buckets, which are behind each of the respective Amazon CloudFront web distributions. The company currently wants to deliver content to a specific client, ensuring that only that client can access the data. At present, all clients can access the S3 buckets directly using an S3 URL or through the CloudFront distribution. The Solutions Architect must serve the private content via CloudFront only, to secure the distribution of files. Which combination of actions should the Architect implement to meet the above requirements? (Select TWO.) Restrict access to files in the origin by creating an origin access control (OAC) and giving it permission to read the files in the bucket. Create a custom CloudFront function to check and ensure that only their clients can access the files. Require the users to access the private content by using special CloudFront signed URLs or signed cookies. Generate an S3 presigned URL to ensure that only the client can access the files. Remove permission to use S3 URLs to read the files for anyone else. Enable the Origin Shield feature of the CloudFront distribution to protect the files from unauthorized access. Incorrect Many companies that distribute content over the Internet want to restrict access to documents, business data, media streams, or content that is intended for selected users, for example, users who have paid a fee. To securely serve this private content by using CloudFront, you can do the following: – Require that your users access your private content by using special CloudFront signed URLs or signed cookies. – Require that your users access your Amazon S3 content by using CloudFront URLs, not Amazon S3 URLs. Requiring CloudFront URLs isn’t necessary, but it is recommended to prevent users from bypassing the restrictions that you specify in signed URLs or signed cookies. You can do this by setting up an origin access control (OAC) for your Amazon S3 bucket. You can also configure the custom headers for a private HTTP server or an Amazon S3 bucket configured as a website endpoint. All objects and buckets by default, are private. The pre-signed URLs are useful if you want your user/customer to be able to upload a specific object to your bucket, but you don’t require them to have AWS security credentials or permissions. You can generate a pre-signed URL programmatically using the AWS SDK for Java or the AWS SDK for .NET. If you are using Microsoft Visual Studio, you can also use AWS Explorer to generate a pre-signed object URL without writing any code. Anyone who receives a valid pre-signed URL can then programmatically upload an object. Hence, the correct answers are: – Restrict access to files in the origin by creating an origin access control (OAC) and giving it permission to read the files in the bucket. – Require the users to access the private content by using special CloudFront signed URLs or signed cookies. The option that says: Create a custom CloudFront function to check and ensure that only their clients can access the files is incorrect. CloudFront Functions are just lightweight functions in JavaScript for high-scale, latency-sensitive CDN customizations and not for enforcing security. A CloudFront Function runtime environment offers submillisecond startup times which allows your application to scale immediately to handle millions of requests per second. But again, this can’t be used to restrict access to your files. The option that says: Enable the Origin Shield feature of the CloudFront distribution to protect the files from unauthorized access is incorrect because this feature is not primarily used for security but for improving your origin’s load times, improving origin availability, and reducing your overall operating costs in CloudFront. The option that says: Generate an S3 presigned URL to ensure that only the client can access the files. Remove permission to use S3 URLs to read the files for anyone else is incorrect because S3 presigned URLs provide temporary access to specific files, but they require generating unique URLs for each file. This approach does not scale well for multiple files or users, and it still involves sharing a URL for access, which is not as secure or efficient as simply using CloudFront signed URLs or signed cookies. References: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudFront/latest/DeveloperGuide/PrivateCo https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/PresignedUrlUploadObject.htm Check out this Amazon CloudFront Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/amazon-cloudfront/ Comparison of AWS Services Cheat Sheets: https://tutorialsdojo.com/comparison-of-aws-services/ 30. QUESTION A Solutions Architect created a brand new IAM User with a default setting using AWS CLI. This is intended to be used to send API requests to Amazon S3, DynamoDB, Lambda, and other AWS resources of the company’s cloud infrastructure. Which of the following must be done to allow the user to make API calls to the AWS resources? Assign an IAM Policy to the user to allow it to send API calls. Create a set of Access Keys for the user and attach the necessary permissions. Do nothing as the IAM User is already capable of sending API calls to your AWS resources. Enable Multi-Factor Authentication for the user. Correct You can choose the credentials that are right for your IAM user. When you use the AWS Management Console to create a user, you must choose to include at least a console password or access keys. By default, a brand new IAM user created using the AWS CLI or AWS API has no credentials of any kind. You must create the type of credentials for an IAM user based on the needs of your user. Access keys are long-term credentials for an IAM user or the AWS account root user. You can use access keys to sign programmatic requests to the AWS CLI or AWS API (directly or using the AWS SDK). Users need their own access keys to make programmatic calls to AWS from the AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI), Tools for Windows PowerShell, the AWS SDKs, or direct HTTP calls using the APIs for individual AWS services. To fill this need, you can create, modify, view, or rotate access keys (access key IDs and secret access keys) for IAM users. When you create an access key, IAM returns the access key ID and secret access key. You should save these in a secure location and give them to the user. The option that says: Do nothing as the IAM User is already capable of sending API calls to your AWS resources is incorrect because by default, a brand new IAM user created using the AWS CLI or AWS API has no credentials of any kind. Take note that in the scenario, you created the new IAM user using the AWS CLI and not via the AWS Management Console, where you must choose to at least include a console password or access keys when creating a new IAM user. Enabling Multi-Factor Authentication for the user is incorrect because this will still not provide the required Access Keys needed to send API calls to your AWS resources. You have to grant the IAM user with Access Keys to meet the requirement. Assigning an IAM Policy to the user to allow it to send API calls is incorrect because adding a new IAM policy to the new user will not grant the needed Access Keys needed to make API calls to the AWS resources. References: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_access- keys.html https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_users.html#id_users_creds Check out this AWS IAM Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-identity-and-access-management- iam/ 31. QUESTION A company is looking for a way to analyze the calls between customers and service agents. Each conversation is transcribed, JSON-formatted, and saved to an Amazon S3 bucket. The company’s solutions architect is tasked to design a solution for extracting and visualizing sentiments from the transcribed files. Which solution meets the requirements while minimizing the amount of operational overhead? Analyze the JSON files with Amazon Textract. Index the sentiment along with the transcript to an Amazon OpenSearch cluster. Visualize the results using Amazon Managed Grafana. Create an Amazon Comprehend analysis job. Index the sentiment along with the transcript to an Amazon OpenSearch cluster. Visualize the results using Amazon Managed Grafana. Create an Amazon Comprehend analysis job. Index the sentiment along with the transcript to an Amazon OpenSearch cluster. Visualize the results using the OpenSearch Dashboard. Train a custom Natural Language Processing (NLP) model using Amazon SageMaker. Index the sentiment along with the transcript to an Amazon OpenSearch cluster. Visualize the results using the OpenSearch Dashboard. Correct Amazon Comprehend uses machine learning to help you uncover the insights and relationships in your unstructured data. The service identifies the language of the text; extracts key phrases, places, people, brands, or events; understands how positive or negative the text is; analyzes text using tokenization and parts of speech, and automatically organizes a collection of text files by topic. You can also use AutoML capabilities in Amazon Comprehend to build a custom set of entities or text classification models that are tailored uniquely to your organization’s needs. In this scenario, you can build the application with the help of Amazon Comprehend. You could expose the application through a RESTful endpoint, have it invoke a Lambda function that will call Amazon Comprehend for sentiment analysis, and index data into an Amazon OpenSearch cluster. Hence, the correct answer is: Create an Amazon Comprehend analysis job. Index the sentiment along with the transcript to an Amazon OpenSearch cluster. Visualize the results using the OpenSearch Dashboard. The option that says: Analyze the JSON files with Amazon Textract. Index the sentiment along with the transcript to an Amazon OpenSearch cluster. Visualize the results using Amazon Managed Grafana is incorrect. Amazon Textract is just an AI service used to extract text data from scanned documents in PNG, JPEG, TIFF, PDF formats and is not capable of running sentiment analysis. Furthermore, Grafana is more suited for the visualization of time-series data such as system metrics (CPU load, disk storage, memory utilization, temperature, etc). While there are hacks you can use to visualize non-time series like the one in the scenario, they come with additional overhead on your part. The built-in OpenSearch dashboard is enough to do the job. The option that says: Create an Amazon Comprehend analysis job. Index the sentiment along with the transcript to an Amazon OpenSearch cluster. Visualize the results using Amazon Managed Grafana is incorrect. The Amazon OpenSearch dashboard is a more suitable service to use than Grafana since the sentiment data is already processed by an Amazon OpenSearch cluster. This solution needs a separate AWS data source configuration in the Grafana workspace console to integrate and read the sentiment data, which entails an additional operational overhead. The option that says: Train a custom Natural Language Processing (NLP) model using Amazon SageMaker. Index the sentiment along with the transcript to an Amazon OpenSearch cluster. Visualize the results using the Amazon QuickSight Dashboard is incorrect. Although this may be a viable option, training your own ML model rather than using the readily available Amazon Comprehend service requires more time and effort. The same is true in using the Amazon QuickSight dashboard instead of the OpenSearch Dashboard. It takes a lot of steps to properly integrate Amazon QuickSight and an OpenSearch cluster which might cause delays in the project implementation. References: https://aws.amazon.com/solutions/implementations/text-analysis- with-amazon-opensearch-service-and-amazon-comprehend/ https://docs.aws.amazon.com/opensearch- service/latest/developerguide/walkthrough.html#walkthrough- analysis Check out this Amazon Comprehend Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/amazon-comprehend/ 32. QUESTION A disaster recovery team is planning to back up on-premises records to a local file server share through SMB protocol. To meet the company’s business continuity plan, the team must ensure that a copy of data from 48 hours ago is available for immediate access. Accessing older records with delay is tolerable. Which should the DR team implement to meet the objective with the LEAST amount of configuration effort? Mount an Amazon EFS file system on the on- premises client and copy all backups to an NFS share. Create an AWS Backup plan to copy data backups to a local SMB share every 48 hours. Use an AWS Storage File gateway with enough storage to keep data from the last 48 hours. Send the backups to an SMB share mounted as a local disk. Create an SMB file share in Amazon FSx for Windows File Server that has enough storage to store all backups. Access the file share from on- premises. Correct Amazon S3 File Gateway presents a file interface that enables you to store files as objects in Amazon S3 using the industry- standard NFS and SMB file protocols, and access those files via NFS and SMB from your data center or Amazon EC2, or access those files as objects directly in Amazon S3. When you deploy File Gateway, you specify how much disk space you want to allocate for local cache. This local cache acts as a buffer for writes and provides low latency access to data that was recently written to or read from Amazon S3. When a client writes data to a file via File Gateway, that data is first written to the local cache disk on the gateway itself. Once the data has been safely persisted to the local cache, only then does the File Gateway acknowledge the write back to the client. From there, File Gateway transfers the data to the S3 bucket asynchronously in the background, optimizing data transfer using multipart parallel uploads and encrypting data in transit using HTTPS. In this scenario, you can deploy an AWS Storage File Gateway to the on-premises client. After activating the File Gateway, create an SMB share and mount it as a local disk at the on- premises end. Copy the backups to the SMB share. You must ensure that you size the File Gateway’s local cache appropriately to the backup data that needs immediate access. After the backup is done, you will be able to access the older data but with a delay. There will be a small delay since data (not in cache) needs to be retrieved from Amazon S3. Hence, the correct answer is: Use an AWS Storage File gateway with enough storage to keep data from the last 48 hours. Send the backups to an SMB share mounted as a local disk. The option that says: Create an SMB file share in Amazon FSx for Windows File Server that has enough storage to store all backups. Access the file share from on-premises is incorrect because this requires additional setup. You need to set up a Direct Connect or VPN connection from on-premises to AWS first in order for this to work. The option that says: Mount an Amazon EFS file system on the on-premises client and copy all backups to an NFS share is incorrect because the file share required in the scenario needs to be using the SMB protocol. The option that says: Create an AWS Backup plan to copy data backups to a local SMB share every 48 hours is incorrect. AWS Backup only works on AWS resources. References: https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/storage/easily-store-your-sql- server-backups-in-amazon-s3-using-file-gateway/ https://aws.amazon.com/storagegateway/faqs/ Check out this AWS Storage Gateway Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-storage-gateway/ 33. QUESTION A company deployed a fleet of Windows-based EC2 instances with IPv4 addresses launched in a private subnet. Several software installed in the EC2 instances are required to be updated via the Internet. Which of the following services can provide the firm a highly available solution to safely allow the instances to fetch the software patches from the Internet but prevent outside network from initiating a connection? NAT Gateway VPC Endpoint NAT Instance Egress-Only Internet Gateway Incorrect AWS offers two kinds of NAT devices — a NAT gateway or a NAT instance. It is recommended to use NAT gateways, as they provide better availability and bandwidth over NAT instances. The NAT Gateway service is also a managed service that does not require your administration efforts. A NAT instance is launched from a NAT AMI. Just like a NAT instance, you can use a network address translation (NAT) gateway to enable instances in a private subnet to connect to the internet or other AWS services but prevent the internet from initiating a connection with those instances. Here is a diagram showing the differences between NAT gateway and NAT instance: Egress-Only Internet Gateway is incorrect because this is primarily used for VPCs that use IPv6 to enable instances in a private subnet to connect to the Internet or other AWS services but prevent the Internet from initiating a connection with those instances, just like what NAT Instance and NAT Gateway do. The scenario explicitly says that the EC2 instances are using IPv4 addresses which is why Egress-only Internet gateway is invalid, even though it can provide the required high availability. VPC Endpoint is incorrect because this simply enables you to privately connect your VPC to supported AWS services and VPC endpoint services powered by PrivateLink without requiring an Internet gateway, NAT device, VPN connection, or AWS Direct Connect connection. NAT Instance is incorrect. Although this can also enable instances in a private subnet to connect to the Internet or other AWS services and prevent the Internet from initiating a connection with those instances, it is not as highly available compared to a NAT Gateway. References: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonVPC/latest/UserGuide/vpc- nat-gateway.html https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/vpc-nat- comparison.html https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/egress-only- internet-gateway.html Check out this Amazon VPC Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/amazon-vpc/ 34. QUESTION A company has an application that continually sends encrypted documents to Amazon S3. The company requires that the configuration for data access is in line with its strict compliance standards. It should also be alerted if there is any risk of unauthorized access or suspicious access patterns. Which step is needed to meet the requirements? Use Amazon Inspector to alert whenever a security violation is detected on S3. Use Amazon Rekognition to monitor and recognize patterns on S3. Use Amazon GuardDuty to monitor malicious activity on S3. Use AWS CloudTrail to monitor and detect access patterns on S3. Correct Amazon GuardDuty can generate findings based on suspicious activities such as requests coming from known malicious IP addresses, changing of bucket policies/ACLs to expose an S3 bucket publicly, or suspicious API call patterns that attempt to discover misconfigured bucket permissions. To detect possibly malicious behavior, GuardDuty uses a combination of anomaly detection, machine learning, and continuously updated threat intelligence. Hence, the correct answer is: Use Amazon GuardDuty to monitor malicious activity on S3. The option that says: Use Amazon Rekognition to monitor and recognize patterns on S3 is incorrect because Amazon Rekognition is simply a service that can identify the objects, people, text, scenes, and activities on your images or videos, as well as detect any inappropriate content. The option that says: Use AWS CloudTrail to monitor and detect access patterns on S3 is incorrect. While AWS CloudTrail can track API calls for your account, including calls made by the AWS Management Console, AWS SDKs, command line tools, and other AWS services, its primary function is not to monitor and detect access patterns on S3. It’s more about governance, compliance, operational auditing, and risk auditing. The option that says: Use Amazon Inspector to alert whenever a security violation is detected on S3 is incorrect because Inspector is only an automated security assessment service that helps improve the security and compliance of applications deployed on AWS. References: https://aws.amazon.com/guardduty/ https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/new-using-amazon- guardduty-to-protect-your-s3-buckets/ Check out this Amazon GuardDuty Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/amazon-guardduty/ 35. QUESTION A Solution Architect is working on a cloud infrastructure project for a company that uses AWS services. The company uses multiple EC2 and Amazon RDS DB instances on various applications. As part of the task, the company asked to create a solution that automatically starts and stops the EC2 and DB instances based on a predetermined schedule. Which option will enable the Solution Architect to fulfill the company’s requirements while minimizing cost and infrastructure maintenance? Utilize elastic resizing to scale the EC2 instances and automatically scale the DB instances to zero during periods outside the predetermined schedule. Search various partner solutions on the AWS Marketplace that offer automated start and stop functionalities for EC2 and RDS instances according to predefined schedules. Set up a crontab schedule to run shell scripts that start and stop EC2 and RDS instances at specific times, enabling automatic management of the instances based on the predetermined schedule. Generate an AWS Lambda function to start and stop EC2 and RDS DB instances. Set up Amazon EventBridge (Amazon CloudWatch Events) to trigger the Lambda function based on a predefined schedule. Correct Automating the task of initiating and terminating EC2 and DB instances on a predefined schedule can be achieved by using a Lambda Function and Amazon EventBridge (Amazon CloudWatch Events) together. The first step is to create a Lambda Function that contains the necessary code to initiate and terminate the EC2 and DB instances. This code can be customized to meet specific needs and requirements. Once the Lambda Function is created, it can be tested to ensure it works correctly. Next, a predefined schedule can be set up in Amazon EventBridge (Amazon CloudWatch Events) to trigger the Lambda Function at specific times or intervals. This involves creating a rule in EventBridge and specifying the schedule using a cron expression. When the scheduled time, EventBridge triggers the Lambda Function, which executes the code to initiate or terminate the EC2 and DB instances. The results of the task are returned to the calling application. Combining Lambda Function and Amazon EventBridge (Amazon CloudWatch Events) allows it to automate initiating and terminating EC2 and DB instances, freeing time for more critical work. Additionally, EventBridge provides a simple way to manage and maintain the schedule, making it a helpful tool for streamlining workflow and increasing productivity. These two services offer a powerful solution for automating routine tasks in the AWS environment. Hence, the correct answer is: Generate an AWS Lambda function to start and stop EC2 and RDS DB instances. Set up Amazon EventBridge (Amazon CloudWatch Events) to trigger the Lambda function based on a predefined schedule. The option that says: Utilize elastic resizing to scale the EC2 instances and automatically scale the DB instances to zero during periods outside the predetermined schedule is incorrect. Elastic resizing is a feature that allows you to automatically adjust the size of your EC2 instances based on demand. While this can help with scaling your instances, it does not provide a direct solution for automatically starting and stopping instances based on a predetermined schedule. The option that says: Set up a crontab schedule to run shell scripts that start and stop EC2 and RDS instances at specific times, enabling automatic management of the instances based on the predetermined schedule is incorrect. This option involves creating manual shell scripts and setting up a cron job to execute the Lambda Function in a scheduled time. While starting and stopping instances using shell scripts is possible, it introduces manual overhead and requires continuous maintenance. The option that says: Search various partner solutions on the AWS Marketplace that offer automated start and stop functionalities for EC2 and RDS instances according to predefined schedules is incorrect. While there might be some partner solutions on the AWS Marketplace that offer automated start and stop functionalities, it’s not necessary to rely on third- party solutions for this straightforward requirement. Using AWS services is generally preferred to keep things simple and reduce complexity. References: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/services- cloudwatchevents.html https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/welcome.html Check out this AWS Lambda Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-lambda/ Introduction to AWS Lambda and Serveless Applications: 36. QUESTION A game company has a requirement of load balancing the incoming TCP traffic at the transport level (Layer 4) to their containerized gaming servers hosted in AWS Fargate. To maintain performance, it should handle millions of requests per second sent by gamers around the globe while maintaining ultra-low latencies. Which of the following must be implemented in the current architecture to satisfy the new requirement? Launch a new Application Load Balancer. Launch a new Network Load Balancer. Create a new record in Amazon Route 53 with Weighted Routing policy to load balance the incoming traffic. Launch a new microservice in AWS Fargate that acts as a load balancer since using an ALB or NLB with Fargate is not possible. Correct Elastic Load Balancing automatically distributes incoming application traffic across multiple targets, such as Amazon EC2 instances, containers, IP addresses, and Lambda functions. It can handle the varying load of your application traffic in a single Availability Zone or across multiple Availability Zones. Elastic Load Balancing offers three types of load balancers that all feature the high availability, automatic scaling, and robust security necessary to make your applications fault-tolerant. They are: Application Load Balancer, Network Load Balancer, and Classic Load Balancer Network Load Balancer is best suited for load balancing of TCP traffic where extreme performance is required. Operating at the connection level (Layer 4), Network Load Balancer routes traffic to targets within Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) and is capable of handling millions of requests per second while maintaining ultra-low latencies. Network Load Balancer is also optimized to handle sudden and volatile traffic patterns. Hence, the correct answer is to launch a new Network Load Balancer. The option that says: Launch a new Application Load Balancer is incorrect because it cannot handle TCP or Layer 4 connections, only Layer 7 (HTTP and HTTPS). The option that says: Create a new record in Amazon Route 53 with Weighted Routing policy to load balance the incoming traffic is incorrect. Although Route 53 can act as a load balancer by assigning each record a relative weight that corresponds to how much traffic you want to send to each resource, it is still not capable of handling millions of requests per second while maintaining ultra-low latencies. You have to use a Network Load Balancer instead. The option that says: Launch a new microservice in AWS Fargate that acts as a load balancer since using an ALB or NLB with Fargate is not possible is incorrect because you can place an ALB and NLB in front of your AWS Fargate cluster. References: https://aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/features/#compare https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/load- balancer-types.html https://aws.amazon.com/getting-started/projects/build-modern- app-fargate-lambda-dynamodb-python/module-two/ Check out this AWS Elastic Load Balancing (ELB) Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-elastic-load-balancing-elb/ 37. QUESTION Both historical records and frequently accessed data are stored on an on-premises storage system. The amount of current data is growing at an exponential rate. As the storage’s capacity is nearing its limit, the company’s Solutions Architect has decided to move the historical records to AWS to free up space for the active data. Which of the following architectures deliver the best solution in terms of cost and operational management? Use AWS Storage Gateway to move the historical records from on-premises to AWS. Choose Amazon S3 Glacier Deep Archive to be the destination for the data. Use AWS DataSync to move the historical records from on-premises to AWS. Choose Amazon S3 Standard to be the destination for the data. Modify the S3 lifecycle configuration to move the data from the Standard tier to Amazon S3 Glacier Deep Archive after 30 days. Use AWS DataSync to move the historical records from on-premises to AWS. Choose Amazon S3 Glacier Deep Archive to be the destination for the data. Use AWS Storage Gateway to move the historical records from on-premises to AWS. Choose Amazon S3 Glacier to be the destination for the data. Modify the S3 lifecycle configuration to move the data from the Standard tier to Amazon S3 Glacier Deep Archive after 30 days. Incorrect AWS DataSync makes it simple and fast to move large amounts of data online between on-premises storage and Amazon S3, Amazon Elastic File System (Amazon EFS), or Amazon FSx for Windows File Server. Manual tasks related to data transfers can slow down migrations and burden IT operations. DataSync eliminates or automatically handles many of these tasks, including scripting copy jobs, scheduling, and monitoring transfers, validating data, and optimizing network utilization. The DataSync software agent connects to your Network File System (NFS), Server Message Block (SMB) storage, and your self- managed object storage, so you don’t have to modify your applications. DataSync can transfer hundreds of terabytes and millions of files at speeds up to 10 times faster than open-source tools, over the Internet or AWS Direct Connect links. You can use DataSync to migrate active data sets or archives to AWS, transfer data to the cloud for timely analysis and processing, or replicate data to AWS for business continuity. Getting started with DataSync is easy: deploy the DataSync agent, connect it to your file system, select your AWS storage resources, and start moving data between them. You pay only for the data you move. Since the problem is mainly about moving historical records from on-premises to AWS, using AWS DataSync is a more suitable solution. You can use DataSync to move cold data from expensive on-premises storage systems directly to durable and secure long-term storage, such as Amazon S3 Glacier or Amazon S3 Glacier Deep Archive. Hence, the correct answer is the option that says: Use AWS DataSync to move the historical records from on-premises to AWS. Choose Amazon S3 Glacier Deep Archive to be the destination for the data. The following options are both incorrect: – Use AWS Storage Gateway to move the historical records from on-premises to AWS. Choose Amazon S3 Glacier Deep Archive to be the destination for the data. – Use AWS Storage Gateway to move the historical records from on-premises to AWS. Choose Amazon S3 Glacier to be the destination for the data. Modify the S3 lifecycle configuration to move the data from the Standard tier to Amazon S3 Glacier Deep Archive after 30 days. Although you can copy data from on-premises to AWS with Storage Gateway, it is not suitable for transferring large sets of data to AWS. Storage Gateway is mainly used in providing low- latency access to data by caching frequently accessed data on- premises while storing archive data securely and durably in Amazon cloud storage services. Storage Gateway optimizes data transfer to AWS by sending only changed data and compressing data. The option that says: Use AWS DataSync to move the historical records from on-premises to AWS. Choose Amazon S3 Standard to be the destination for the data. Modify the S3 lifecycle configuration to move the data from the Standard tier to Amazon S3 Glacier Deep Archive after 30 days is incorrect because, with AWS DataSync, you can transfer data from on-premises directly to Amazon S3 Glacier Deep Archive. You don’t have to configure the S3 lifecycle policy and wait for 30 days to move the data to Glacier Deep Archive. References: https://aws.amazon.com/datasync/faqs/ https://aws.amazon.com/storagegateway/faqs/ Check out these AWS DataSync and Storage Gateway Cheat Sheets: https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-datasync/ https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-storage-gateway/ 38. QUESTION A company has developed public APIs hosted in Amazon EC2 instances behind an Elastic Load Balancer. The APIs will be used by various clients from their respective on-premises data centers. A Solutions Architect received a report that the web service clients can only access trusted IP addresses whitelisted on their firewalls. What should you do to accomplish the above requirement? Create a CloudFront distribution whose origin points to the private IP addresses of your web servers. Associate an Elastic IP address to an Application Load Balancer. Associate an Elastic IP address to a Network Load Balancer. Create an Alias Record in Route 53 which maps to the DNS name of the load balancer. Correct A Network Load Balancer functions at the fourth layer of the Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) model. It can handle millions of requests per second. After the load balancer receives a connection request, it selects a target from the default rule’s target group. It attempts to open a TCP connection to the selected target on the port specified in the listener configuration. Based on the given scenario, web service clients can only access trusted IP addresses. To resolve this requirement, you can use the Bring Your Own IP (BYOIP) feature to use the trusted IPs as Elastic IP addresses (EIP) to a Network Load Balancer (NLB). This way, there’s no need to re-establish the whitelists with new IP addresses. Hence, the correct answer is: Associate an Elastic IP address to a Network Load Balancer. The option that says: Associate an Elastic IP address to an Application Load Balancer is incorrect because you can’t assign an Elastic IP address to an Application Load Balancer. The alternative method you can do is assign an Elastic IP address to a Network Load Balancer in front of the Application Load Balancer. The option that says: Create a CloudFront distribution whose origin points to the private IP addresses of your web servers is incorrect because web service clients can only access trusted IP addresses. The fastest way to resolve this requirement is to attach an Elastic IP address to a Network Load Balancer. The option that says: Create an Alias Record in Route 53 which maps to the DNS name of the load balancer is incorrect. This approach won’t still allow them to access the application because of trusted IP addresses on their firewalls. References: https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/elb- attach-elastic-ip-to-public-nlb/ https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/networking-and-content- delivery/using-static-ip-addresses-for-application-load-balancers/ https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/network/introduction.html Check out this AWS Elastic Load Balancing Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-elastic-load-balancing-elb/ 39. QUESTION A company is using AWS Fargate to run a batch job whenever an object is uploaded to an Amazon S3 bucket. The minimum ECS task count is initially set to 1 to save on costs and should only be increased based on new objects uploaded to the S3 bucket. Which is the most suitable option to implement with the LEAST amount of effort? Set up an Amazon EventBridge (Amazon CloudWatch Events) rule to detect S3 object PUT operations and set the target to the ECS cluster to run a new ECS task. Set up an alarm in CloudWatch to monitor S3 object- level operations recorded on CloudTrail. Set two alarm actions to update the ECS task count to scale- out/scale-in depending on the S3 event. Set up an Amazon EventBridge (Amazon CloudWatch Events) rule to detect S3 object PUT operations and set the target to a Lambda function that will run the StartTask API command. Set up an alarm in Amazon CloudWatch to monitor S3 object-level operations that are recorded on CloudTrail. Create an Amazon EventBridge (Amazon CloudWatch Events) rule that triggers the ECS cluster when new CloudTrail events are detected. Correct Amazon EventBridge (Amazon CloudWatch Events) is a serverless event bus that makes it easy to connect applications together. It uses data from your own applications, integrated software as a service (SaaS) applications, and AWS services. This simplifies the process of building event-driven architectures by decoupling event producers from event consumers. This allows producers and consumers to be scaled, updated, and deployed independently. Loose coupling improves developer agility in addition to application resiliency. You can use Amazon EventBridge (Amazon CloudWatch Events) to run Amazon ECS tasks when certain AWS events occur. You can set up an EventBridge rule that runs an Amazon ECS task whenever a file is uploaded to a certain Amazon S3 bucket using the Amazon S3 PUT operation. Hence, the correct answer is: Set up an Amazon EventBridge (Amazon CloudWatch Events) rule to detect S3 object PUT operations and set the target to the ECS cluster to run a new ECS task. The option that says: Set up an Amazon EventBridge (Amazon CloudWatch Events) rule to detect S3 object PUT operations and set the target to a Lambda function that will run the StartTask API command is incorrect. Although this solution meets the requirement, creating your own Lambda function for this scenario is not really necessary. It is much simpler to control ECS tasks directly as targets for the CloudWatch Event rule. Take note that the scenario asks for a solution that is the easiest to implement. The option that says: Set up an alarm in Amazon CloudWatch to monitor S3 object-level operations that are recorded on CloudTrail. Create an Amazon EventBridge (Amazon CloudWatch Events) rule that triggers the ECS cluster when new CloudTrail events are detected is incorrect because using CloudTrail and CloudWatch Alarm creates an unnecessary complexity to what you want to achieve. Amazon EventBridge (Amazon CloudWatch Events) can directly target an ECS task on the Targets section when you create a new rule. The option that says: Set up an alarm in CloudWatch to monitor CloudTrail since this S3 object-level operations are recorded on CloudTrail. Set two alarm actions to update ECS task count to scale-out/scale-in depending on the S3 event is incorrect because you can’t directly set CloudWatch Alarms to update the ECS task count. References: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/events/CloudWatch- Events-tutorial-ECS.html https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/events/Create- CloudWatch-Events-Rule.html Check out this Amazon CloudWatch Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/amazon-cloudwatch/ 40. QUESTION A company plans to use a cloud storage service to temporarily store its log files. The number of files to be stored is still unknown, but it only needs to be kept for 12 hours. Which of the following is the most cost-effective storage class to use in this scenario? Amazon S3 Standard-IA Amazon S3 One Zone-IA Amazon S3 Standard Amazon S3 Glacier Deep Archive Correct Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) is an object storage service that offers industry-leading scalability, data availability, security, and performance. Amazon S3 also offers a range of storage classes for the objects that you store. You choose a class depending on your use case scenario and performance access requirements. All of these storage classes offer high durability. The scenario requires you to select a cost-effective service that does not have a minimum storage duration since the data will only last for 12 hours. Among the options given, only Amazon S3 Standard has the feature of no minimum storage duration. It is also the most cost-effective storage service because you will only be charged for the last 12 hours, unlike in other storage classes where you will still be charged based on its respective storage duration (e.g. 30 days, 90 days, 180 days). S3 Intelligent-Tiering also has no minimum storage duration and this is designed for data with changing or unknown access patters. S3 Standard-IA is designed for long-lived but infrequently accessed data that is retained for months or years. Data that is deleted from S3 Standard-IA within 30 days will still be charged for a full 30 days. S3 Glacier Deep Archive is designed for long-lived but rarely accessed data that is retained for 7-10 years or more. Objects that are archived to S3 Glacier Deep Archive have a minimum of 180 days of storage, and objects deleted before 180 days incur a pro-rated charge equal to the storage charge for the remaining days. Hence, the correct answer is: Amazon S3 Standard. Amazon S3 Standard-IA is incorrect because this storage class has a minimum storage duration of at least 30 days. Remember that the scenario requires the data to be kept for 12 hours only. Amazon S3 One Zone-IA is incorrect. Just like S3 Standard-IA, this storage class has a minimum storage duration of at least 30 days. Amazon S3 Glacier Deep Archive is incorrect. Although it is the most cost-effective storage class among all other options, it has a minimum storage duration of at least 180 days which is only suitable for backup and data archival. If you store your data in Glacier Deep Archive for only 12 hours, you will still be charged for the full 180 days. References: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/storage- class-intro.html https://aws.amazon.com/s3/storage-classes/ Check out this Amazon S3 Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/amazon-s3/ S3 Standard vs S3 Standard-IA vs S3 One Zone-IA Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/s3-standard-vs-s3-standard-ia-vs-s3- one-zone-ia/ 41. QUESTION A company runs a messaging application in the ap-northeast- 1 and ap-southeast-2 region. A Solutions Architect needs to create a routing policy wherein a larger portion of traffic from the Philippines and North India will be routed to the resource in the ap-northeast-1 region. Which Route 53 routing policy should the Solutions Architect use? Geolocation Routing Latency Routing Geoproximity Routing Weighted Routing Incorrect Amazon Route 53 is a highly available and scalable Domain Name System (DNS) web service. You can use Route 53 to perform three main functions in any combination: domain registration, DNS routing, and health checking. After you create a hosted zone for your domain, such as example.com, you create records to tell the Domain Name System (DNS) how you want traffic to be routed for that domain. For example, you might create records that cause DNS to do the following: – Route Internet traffic for example.com to the IP address of a host in your data center. – Route email for that domain (jose.rizal@tutorialsdojo.com) to a mail server (mail.tutorialsdojo.com). – Route traffic for a subdomain called operations.manila.tutorialsdojo.com to the IP address of a different host. Each record includes the name of a domain or a subdomain, a record type (for example, a record with a type of MX routes email), and other information applicable to the record type (for MX records, the hostname of one or more mail servers and a priority for each server). Route 53 has different routing policies that you can choose from. Below are some of the policies: Latency Routing lets Amazon Route 53 serve user requests from the AWS Region that provides the lowest latency. It does not, however, guarantee that users in the same geographic region will be served from the same location. Geoproximity Routing lets Amazon Route 53 route traffic to your resources based on the geographic location of your users and your resources. You can also optionally choose to route more traffic or less to a given resource by specifying a value, known as a bias. A bias expands or shrinks the size of the geographic region from which traffic is routed to a resource. Geolocation Routing lets you choose the resources that serve your traffic based on the geographic location of your users, meaning the location that DNS queries originate from. Weighted Routing lets you associate multiple resources with a single domain name (tutorialsdojo.com) or subdomain name (subdomain.tutorialsdojo.com) and choose how much traffic is routed to each resource. In this scenario, the problem requires a routing policy that will let Route 53 route traffic to the resource in the Tokyo region from a larger portion of the Philippines and North India. You need to use Geoproximity Routing and specify a bias to control the size of the geographic region from which traffic is routed to your resource. The sample image above uses a bias of -40 in the Tokyo region and a bias of 1 in the Sydney Region. Setting up the bias configuration in this manner would cause Route 53 to route traffic coming from the middle and northern part of the Philippines, as well as the northern part of India to the resource in the Tokyo Region. Hence, the correct answer is Geoproximity Routing. Geolocation Routing is incorrect because you cannot control the coverage size from which traffic is routed to your instance in Geolocation Routing. It just lets you choose the instances that will serve traffic based on the location of your users. Latency Routing is incorrect because it is mainly used for improving performance by letting Route 53 serve user requests from the AWS Region that provides the lowest latency. Weighted Routing is incorrect because it is used for routing traffic to multiple resources in proportions that you specify. This can be useful for load balancing and testing new versions of software. References: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/Route53/latest/DeveloperGuide/routing- policy.html#routing-policy-geoproximity https://docs.aws.amazon.com/Route53/latest/DeveloperGuide/rrsets- working-with.html Latency Routing vs. Geoproximity Routing vs. Geolocation Routing: https://tutorialsdojo.com/latency-routing-vs-geoproximity-routing- vs-geolocation-routing/ 42. QUESTION A technology company has a suite of container-based web applications and serverless solutions that are hosted in AWS. The Solutions Architect must define a standard infrastructure that will be used across development teams and applications. There are application-specific resources too that change frequently, especially during the early stages of application development. Developers must be able to add supplemental resources to their applications, which are beyond what the architects predefined in the system environments and service templates. Which of the following should be implemented to satisfy this requirement? Set up AWS Proton for deploying container applications and serverless solutions. Create components from the AWS Proton console and attach them to their respective service instance. Use the Amazon EKS Anywhere service for deploying container applications and serverless solutions. Create a service instance for each application-specific resource. Use the Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS) Anywhere service for deploying container applications and serverless solutions. Configure Prometheus metrics collection on the ECS cluster and use Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus for monitoring frequently-changing resources Set up AWS Control Tower to automate container- based application deployments. Use AWS Config for application-specific resources that change frequently. Incorrect AWS Proton allows you to deploy any serverless or container- based application with increased efficiency, consistency, and control. You can define infrastructure standards and effective continuous delivery pipelines for your organization. Proton breaks down the infrastructure into environment and service (“infrastructure as code” templates). As a developer, you select a standardized service template that AWS Proton uses to create a service that deploys and manages your application in a service instance. An AWS Proton service is an instantiation of a service template, which normally includes several service instances and a pipeline. The diagram above displays the high-level overview of a simple AWS Proton workflow. In AWS Proton, administrators define standard infrastructure that is used across development teams and applications. However, development teams might need to include additional resources for their specific use cases, like Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS) queues or Amazon DynamoDB tables. These application-specific resources might change frequently, particularly during early application development. Maintaining these frequent changes in administrator-authored templates might be hard to manage and scale—administrators would need to maintain many more templates without real administrator- added value. The alternative—letting application developers author templates for their applications—isn’t ideal either because it takes away administrators’ ability to standardize the main architecture components, like AWS Fargate tasks. This is where components come in. With a component, a developer can add supplemental resources to their application, above and beyond what administrators defined in the environment and service templates. The developer then attaches the component to a service instance. AWS Proton provisions infrastructure resources defined by the component just like it provisions resources for environments and service instances. Hence, the correct answer is: Set up AWS Proton for deploying container applications and serverless solutions. Create components from the AWS Proton console and attach them to their respective service instance. The option that says: Use the Amazon EKS Anywhere service for deploying container applications and serverless solutions. Create a service instance for each application- specific resource is incorrect. Amazon EKS Anywhere just allows you to manage a Kubernetes cluster on external environments that are supported by AWS. It is better to use AWS Proton with custom Components that can be attached to the different service instances of the company’s application suite. The option that says: Set up AWS Control Tower to automate container-based application deployments. Use AWS Config for application-specific resources that change frequently is incorrect. AWS Control Tower is used to simplify the creation of new accounts with preconfigured constraints. It isn’t used to automate application deployments. Moreover, AWS Config is commonly used for monitoring the changes of AWS resources and not the custom resources for serverless or container-based applications in AWS. A combination of AWS Proton and Components is the most suitable solution for this scenario. The option that says: Use the Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS) Anywhere service for deploying container applications and serverless solutions. Configure Prometheus metrics collection on the ECS cluster and use Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus for monitoring frequently-changing resources is incorrect. The Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus is only a Prometheus- compatible monitoring and alerting service that makes it easy to monitor containerized applications and infrastructure at scale. It is not capable of tracking or maintaining your application-specific resources that change frequently. References: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/proton/latest/userguide/Welcome.html https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/architecture/simplifying-multi- account-ci-cd-deployments-using-aws-proton/ 43. QUESTION A company wants to streamline the process of creating multiple AWS accounts within an AWS Organization. Each organization unit (OU) must be able to launch new accounts with preapproved configurations from the security team which will standardize the baselines and network configurations for all accounts in the organization. Which solution entails the least amount of effort to implement? Centralized the creation of AWS accounts using AWS Systems Manager OpsCenter. Enforce policies and detect violations to all AWS accounts using AWS Security Hub. Configure AWS Resource Access Manager (AWS RAM) to launch new AWS accounts as well as standardize the baselines and network configurations for each organization unit Set up an AWS Control Tower Landing Zone. Enable pre-packaged guardrails to enforce policies or detect violations. Set up an AWS Config aggregator on the root account of the organization to enable multi-account, multi-region data aggregation. Deploy conformance packs to standardize the baselines and network configurations for all accounts. Correct AWS Control Tower provides a single location to easily set up your new well-architected multi-account environment and govern your AWS workloads with rules for security, operations, and internal compliance. You can automate the setup of your AWS environment with best-practices blueprints for multi-account structure, identity, access management, and account provisioning workflow. For ongoing governance, you can select and apply pre-packaged policies enterprise-wide or to specific groups of accounts. AWS Control Tower provides three methods for creating member accounts: – Through the Account Factory console that is part of AWS Service Catalog. – Through the Enroll account feature within AWS Control Tower. – From your AWS Control Tower landing zone’s management account, using Lambda code and appropriate IAM roles. AWS Control Tower offers “guardrails” for ongoing governance of your AWS environment. Guardrails provide governance controls by preventing the deployment of resources that don’t conform to selected policies or detecting non-conformance of provisioned resources. AWS Control Tower automatically implements guardrails using multiple building blocks such as AWS CloudFormation to establish a baseline, AWS Organizations service control policies (SCPs) to prevent configuration changes, and AWS Config rules to continuously detect non-conformance. In this scenario, the requirement is to simplify the creation of AWS accounts that have governance guardrails and a defined baseline in place. To save time and resources, you can use AWS Control Tower to automate account creation. With the appropriate user group permissions, you can specify standardized baselines and network configurations for all accounts in the organization. Hence, the correct answer is: Set up an AWS Control Tower Landing Zone. Enable pre-packaged guardrails to enforce policies or detect violations. The option that says: Configure AWS Resource Access Manager (AWS RAM) to launch new AWS accounts as well as standardize the baselines and network configurations for each organization unit is incorrect. The AWS Resource Access Manager (RAM) service simply helps you to securely share your resources across AWS accounts or within your organization or organizational units (OUs) in AWS Organizations. It is not capable of launching new AWS accounts with preapproved configurations. The option that says: Set up an AWS Config aggregator on the root account of the organization to enable multi-account, multi-region data aggregation. Deploy conformance packs to standardize the baselines and network configurations for all accounts is incorrect. AWS Config cannot provision accounts. A conformance pack is only a collection of AWS Config rules and remediation actions that can be easily deployed as a single entity in an account and a Region or across an organization in AWS Organizations. The option that says: Centralized the creation of AWS accounts using AWS Systems Manager OpsCenter. Enforce policies and detect violations to all AWS accounts using AWS Security Hub is incorrect. AWS Systems Manager is just a collection of services used to manage applications and infrastructure running in AWS that is usually in a single AWS account. The AWS Systems Manager OpsCenter service is just one of the capabilities of AWS Systems Manager, provides a central location where operations engineers and IT professionals can view, investigate, and resolve operational work items (OpsItems) related to AWS resources. References: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/controltower/latest/userguide/account- factory.html https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/mt/how-to-automate-the-creation- of-multiple-accounts-in-aws-control-tower/ https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/aws-control-tower-set-up- govern-a-multi-account-aws-environment/ 44. QUESTION A multinational corporation is expanding its operations and needs to efficiently monitor and analyze IAM-related errors, specifically Access Denied and Unauthorized errors in their AWS accounts. The company has AWS CloudTrail enabled for logging purposes. Which solution would meet the requirements while requiring the least effort to implement? Use Amazon Athena to search for IAM-related errors within CloudTrail logs. Utilize AWS Security Hub to aggregate and analyze security data, including CloudTrail logs, for IAM permission errors. Configure Amazon QuickSight to analyze CloudTrail logs and create a dashboard for monitoring IAM- related errors. Query with AWS CloudTrail Lake to find specific errors in CloudTrail logs. Incorrect AWS CloudTrail Lake lets you run SQL-based queries on your event logs in AWS CloudTrail. It provides a robust and efficient way to directly analyze CloudTrail logs. CloudTrail Lake converts existing events in row-based JSON format to Apache ORC format. ORC is a columnar storage format that is optimized for fast retrieval of data. Events are aggregated into event data stores, which are immutable collections of events based on criteria that you select by applying advanced event selectors. In the question, CloudTrail Lake is particularly suitable because it enables direct querying of specific IAM-related errors like Access Denied and Unauthorized errors . This approach minimizes implementation efforts and maximizes efficiency in troubleshooting, as it leverages existing CloudTrail logs without the need for additional data processing or integration with other services. Hence the correct answer is: Query with AWS CloudTrail Lake to find specific errors in CloudTrail logs. The option that says: Utilize AWS Security Hub to aggregate and analyze security data, including CloudTrail logs, for IAM permission errors is incorrect. While AWS Security Hub is an excellent tool for aggregating and analyzing security data, it is not as direct and specific for querying CloudTrail logs for IAM errors compared to CloudTrail Lake. Security Hub is more about providing a comprehensive view of security posture across various AWS services rather than detailed querying of specific log entries. The option that says: Deploy Amazon Athena to conduct queries within CloudTrail logs for identifying the IAM permission errors is incorrect. Although Amazon Athena can be used to query CloudTrail logs, it requires setting up a database and defining tables, making it more complex and time-consuming compared to the straightforward querying capabilities of CloudTrail Lake. The option that says: Configure Amazon QuickSight to analyze CloudTrail logs and create a dashboard for monitoring IAM-related errors is incorrect. Amazon QuickSight is primarily a business intelligence tool for visualizing data. While it can analyze CloudTrail logs, it is not the most efficient solution for directly querying and troubleshooting specific IAM permission errors. Resources: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/athena/latest/ug/cloudtrail- logs.html https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge- center/troubleshoot-iam-permission-errors/ https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/userguide/view- cloudtrail-events-console.html Check out this AWS CloudTrail Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-cloudtrail/ 45. QUESTION A FinTech startup deployed an application on an Amazon EC2 instance with attached Instance Store volumes and an Elastic IP address. The server is only accessed from 8 AM to 6 PM and can be stopped from 6 PM to 8 AM for cost efficiency using Lambda with the script that automates this based on tags. Which of the following will occur when the EC2 instance is stopped and started? (Select TWO.) The underlying host for the instance is possibly changed. All data on the attached instance-store devices will be lost. The ENI (Elastic Network Interface) is detached. The Elastic IP address is disassociated with the instance. There will be no changes. Incorrect This question did not mention the specific type of EC2 instance, however, it says that it will be stopped and started. Since only EBS-backed instances can be stopped and restarted, it is implied that the instance is EBS-backed. Remember that an instance store-backed instance can only be rebooted or terminated, and its data will be erased if the EC2 instance is either stopped or terminated. If you stopped an EBS-backed EC2 instance, the volume is preserved, but the data in any attached instance store volume will be erased. Keep in mind that an EC2 instance has an underlying physical host computer. If the instance is stopped, AWS usually moves the instance to a new host computer. Your instance may stay on the same host computer if there are no problems with the host computer. In addition, its Elastic IP address is disassociated from the instance if it is an EC2-Classic instance. Otherwise, if it is an EC2-VPC instance, the Elastic IP address remains associated. Take note that an EBS-backed EC2 instance can have attached Instance Store volumes. This is the reason why there is an option that mentions the Instance Store volume, which is placed to test your understanding of this specific storage type. You can launch an EBS-backed EC2 instance and attach several Instance Store volumes but remember that there are some EC2 Instance types that don’t support this kind of setup. Hence, the correct answers are: – The underlying host for the instance is possibly changed. – All data on the attached instance-store devices will be lost. The option that says: The ENI (Elastic Network Interface) is detached is incorrect because the ENI will stay attached even if you stopped your EC2 instance. The option that says: The Elastic IP address is disassociated with the instance is incorrect because the EIP will actually remain associated with your instance even after stopping it. The option that says: There will be no changes is incorrect because there will be a lot of possible changes in your EC2 instance once you stop and start it again. AWS may move the virtualized EC2 instance to another host computer; the instance may get a new public IP address, and the data in your attached instance store volumes will be deleted. References: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2- instance-lifecycle.html https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ComponentsAMIs.html#st for-the-root-device Check out this Amazon EC2 Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/amazon-elastic-compute-cloud-amazon- ec2/ Tutorials Dojo’s AWS Certified Solutions Architect Associate Exam Study Guide: https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-certified-solutions-architect- associate-saa-c02/ 46. QUESTION An online medical system hosted in AWS stores sensitive Personally Identifiable Information (PII) of the users in an Amazon S3 bucket. Both the master keys and the unencrypted data should never be sent to AWS to comply with the strict compliance and regulatory requirements of the company. Which S3 encryption technique should the Architect use? Use S3 server-side encryption with an AWS KMS key. Use S3 server-side encryption with customer provided key. Use S3 client-side encryption with an AWS KMS key. Use S3 client-side encryption with a client-side master key. Correct Client-side encryption is the act of encrypting data before sending it to Amazon S3. To enable client-side encryption, you have the following options: – Use an AWS KMS key. – Use a client-side master key. When using an AWS KMS key to enable client-side data encryption, you provide an AWS KMS key identifier (KeyId) to AWS. On the other hand, when you use client-side master key for client-side data encryption, your client-side master keys and your unencrypted data are never sent to AWS. It’s important that you safely manage your encryption keys because if you lose them, you can’t decrypt your data. This is how client-side encryption using a client-side master key works: When uploading an object – You provide a client-side master key to the Amazon S3 encryption client. The client uses the master key only to encrypt the data encryption key that it generates randomly. The process works like this: 1. The Amazon S3 encryption client generates a one-time-use symmetric key (also known as a data encryption key or data key) locally. It uses the data key to encrypt the data of a single Amazon S3 object. The client generates a separate data key for each object. 2. The client encrypts the data encryption key using the master key that you provide. The client uploads the encrypted data key and its material description as part of the object metadata. The client uses the material description to determine which client-side master key to use for decryption. 3. The client uploads the encrypted data to Amazon S3 and saves the encrypted data key as object metadata ( x-amz- meta-x-amz-key ) in Amazon S3. When downloading an object – The client downloads the encrypted object from Amazon S3. Using the material description from the object’s metadata, the client determines which master key to use to decrypt the data key. The client uses that master key to decrypt the data key and then uses the data key to decrypt the object. Hence, the correct answer is: Use S3 client-side encryption with a client-side master key. The option that says: Use S3 client-side encryption with an AWS KMS key is incorrect because, in client-side encryption with a KMS key, you provide an AWS KMS key identifier (KeyId) to AWS. The scenario clearly indicates that both the master keys and the unencrypted data should never be sent to AWS. The option that says: Use S3 server-side encryption with an AWS KMS key is incorrect because the scenario mentioned that the unencrypted data should never be sent to AWS, which means that you have to use client-side encryption in order to encrypt the data first before sending to AWS. In this way, you can only ensure that there is no unencrypted data being uploaded to AWS. In addition, the master key used by Server-Side Encryption with AWS KMS Key (SSE-KMS) is uploaded and managed by AWS, which directly violates the requirement of not uploading the master key. The option that says: Use S3 server-side encryption with customer provided key is incorrect because, just as mentioned above, you have to use client-side encryption in this scenario instead of server-side encryption. For the S3 server-side encryption with a customer-provided key (SSE-C), you actually provide the encryption key as part of your request to upload the object to S3. Using this key, Amazon S3 manages both the encryption (as it writes to disks) and decryption (when you access your objects). References: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/UsingEncryption.html https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/UsingClientSideEncryption.htm Check out this Amazon S3 Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/amazon-s3/ 47. QUESTION In Amazon EC2, you can manage your instances from the moment you launch them up to their termination. You can flexibly control your computing costs by changing the EC2 instance state. Which of the following statements is true regarding EC2 billing? (Select TWO.) You will be billed when your On-Demand instance is in pending state. You will be billed when your Reserved instance is in terminated state. You will be billed when your Spot instance is preparing to stop with a stopping state. You will not be billed for any instance usage while an instance is not in the running state. You will be billed when your On-Demand instance is preparing to hibernate with a stopping state. Incorrect By working with Amazon EC2 to manage your instances from the moment you launch them through their termination, you ensure that your customers have the best possible experience with the applications or sites that you host on your instances. The following illustration represents the transitions between instance states. Notice that you can’t stop and start an instance store- backed instance: Below are the valid EC2 lifecycle instance states: pending – The instance is preparing to enter the running state. An instance enters the pending state when it launches for the first time, or when it is restarted after being in the stopped state. running – The instance is running and ready for use. stopping – The instance is preparing to be stopped. Take note that you will not billed if it is preparing to stop however, you will still be billed if it is just preparing to hibernate. stopped – The instance is shut down and cannot be used. The instance can be restarted at any time. shutting-down – The instance is preparing to be terminated. terminated – The instance has been permanently deleted and cannot be restarted. Take note that Reserved Instances that applied to terminated instances are still billed until the end of their term according to their payment option. The option that says: You will be billed when your On-Demand instance is preparing to hibernate with a stopping state is correct because when the instance state is stopping , you will not billed if it is preparing to stop however, you will still be billed if it is just preparing to hibernate. The option that says: You will be billed when your Reserved instance is in terminated state is correct because Reserved Instances that applied to terminated instances are still billed until the end of their term according to their payment option. I actually raised a pull-request to Amazon team about the billing conditions for Reserved Instances, which has been approved and reflected on your official AWS Documentation: https://github.com/awsdocs/amazon-ec2-user- guide/pull/45 The option that says: You will be billed when your On-Demand instance is in pending state is incorrect because you will not be billed if your instance is in pending state. The option that says: You will be billed when your Spot instance is preparing to stop with a stopping state is incorrect because you will not be billed if your instance is preparing to stop with a stopping state. The option that says: You will not be billed for any instance usage while an instance is not in the running state is incorrect because the statement is not entirely true. You can still be billed if your instance is preparing to hibernate with a stopping state. References: https://github.com/awsdocs/amazon-ec2-user-guide/pull/45 http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2- instance-lifecycle.html Check out this Amazon EC2 Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/amazon-elastic-compute-cloud-amazon- ec2/ 48. QUESTION A company uses Amazon EC2 instances, Amazon RDS, and Amazon S3 to run its application. During a recent review of its infrastructure costs, the company noticed unusual spending patterns. The company wants to monitor usage costs and send alerts to the appropriate departments when there is unusual spending from its workload. Which option will meet these requirements? In the AWS Billing and Cost Management console, create a cost monitor using AWS Cost Anomaly Detection. Enable Amazon CloudWatch to monitor costs and detect unusual spending. Create a zero spend budget template in AWS Budgets. Use AWS Cost Explorer and enable multi-year data at monthly granularity. Correct AWS Cost Anomaly Detection is an AWS Cost Management feature. This feature uses machine learning models to detect and alert on anomalous spend patterns in your deployed AWS services. Using AWS Cost Anomaly Detection includes the following benefits: – receive alerts individually in aggregated reports either in an email message or an Amazon SNS topic. – evaluate spending patterns using machine learning methods to minimize false positive alerts. For example, you can evaluate weekly or monthly seasonality and natural growth. – investigate the root cause of the anomaly, such as the AWS account, service, Region, or usage type that’s driving the cost increase. – configure how to evaluate your costs. Choose whether you want to analyze all of your AWS services independently or analyze specific member accounts, cost allocation tags, or cost categories. Hence, the correct answer is: In the AWS Billing and Cost Management console, create a cost monitor using AWS Cost Anomaly Detection. The option that says: Create a zero spend budget template in AWS Budgets is incorrect because the zero spend budget template merely gives you an alert when your spending exceeds AWS Free Tier limits. However, it only provides basic alerts and lacks advanced monitoring or anomaly detection. The option that says: Use AWS Cost Explorer and enable multi-year data at monthly granularity is incorrect. This solution would help in analyzing spending over time, but it primarily won’t actively alert you to anomalies or unusual spending patterns. The option that says: Enable Amazon CloudWatch to monitor costs and detect unusual spending is incorrect. Although the Amazon Cloudwatch can be configured to alert based on the EstimateCharges metric, it has no capability of determining whether breaches of a set limit are due to unusual spending or normal/expected increases. References: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cost- management/latest/userguide/manage-ad.html https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/gs_monitor_es Check out this AWS Billing and Cost Management Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-billing-and-cost-management/ 49. QUESTION A client is hosting their company website on a cluster of web servers that are behind a public-facing Application Load Balancer (AWS ALB). The client also uses Amazon Route 53 to manage their public DNS. How should the client configure the DNS zone apex record to point to the load balancer? Create an A record pointing to the IP address of the load balancer. Create a CNAME record pointing to the load balancer DNS name. Create an alias for CNAME record to the load balancer DNS name. Create an A record aliased to the load balancer DNS name. Correct Route 53’s DNS implementation connects user requests to infrastructure running inside (and outside) of Amazon Web Services (AWS). For example, if you have multiple web servers running on EC2 instances behind an Elastic Load Balancing load balancer, Route 53 will route all traffic addressed to your website (e.g. www.tutorialsdojo.com ) to the load balancer DNS name (e.g. elbtutorialsdojo123.elb.amazonaws.com ). Additionally, Route 53 supports the alias resource record set, which lets you map your zone apex (e.g. tutorialsdojo.com ) DNS name to your load balancer DNS name. IP addresses associated with Elastic Load Balancing can change at any time due to scaling or software updates. Route 53 responds to each request for an Alias resource record set with one IP address for the load balancer. Hence, the correct answer is: Create an A record aliased to the load balancer DNS name. The option that says: Creating an A record pointing to the IP address of the load balancer is incorrect. You should be using an Alias record pointing to the DNS name of the load balancer since the IP address of the load balancer can change at any time. The option that says: Creating a CNAME record pointing to the load balancer DNS name and creating an alias for CNAME record to the load balancer DNS name are incorrect because CNAME records cannot be created for your zone apex. You should create an alias record at the top node of a DNS namespace which is also known as the zone apex. For example, if you register the DNS name tutorialsdojo.com, the zone apex is tutorialsdojo.com. You can’t create a CNAME record directly for tutorialsdojo.com, but you can create an alias record for tutorialsdojo.com that routes traffic to www.tutorialsdojo.com. References: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/govcloud- us/latest/UserGuide/setting-up-route53-zoneapex-elb.html https://docs.aws.amazon.com/Route53/latest/DeveloperGuide/resource- record-sets-choosing-alias-non-alias.html Check out this Amazon Route 53 Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/amazon-route-53/ 50. QUESTION A data analytics company, which uses machine learning to collect and analyze consumer data, is using Redshift cluster as their data warehouse. You are instructed to implement a disaster recovery plan for their systems to ensure business continuity even in the event of an AWS region outage. Which of the following is the best approach to meet this requirement? Do nothing because Amazon Redshift is a highly available, fully-managed data warehouse which can withstand an outage of an entire AWS region. Enable Cross-Region Snapshots Copy in your Amazon Redshift Cluster. Create a scheduled job that will automatically take the snapshot of your Redshift Cluster and store it to an S3 bucket. Restore the snapshot in case of an AWS region outage. Use Automated snapshots of your Redshift Cluster. Incorrect You can configure Amazon Redshift to copy snapshots for a cluster to another region. To configure cross-region snapshot copy, you need to enable this copy feature for each cluster and configure where to copy snapshots and how long to keep copied automated snapshots in the destination region. When a cross- region copy is enabled for a cluster, all new manual and automatic snapshots are copied to the specified region. The option that says: Create a scheduled job that will automatically take the snapshot of your Redshift Cluster and store it to an S3 bucket. Restore the snapshot in case of an AWS region outage is incorrect. Although this option is possible, this entails a lot of manual work and hence, not the best option. You should configure cross-region snapshot copy instead. The option that says: Do nothing because Amazon Redshift is a highly available, fully-managed data warehouse which can withstand an outage of an entire AWS region is incorrect. Although Amazon Redshift is a fully-managed data warehouse, you will still need to configure cross-region snapshot copy to ensure that your data is properly replicated to another region. Using Automated snapshots of your Redshift Cluster is incorrect because using automated snapshots is not enough and will not be available in case the entire AWS region is down. Reference: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/mgmt/managing- snapshots-console.html Amazon Redshift Overview: AAmmaazzoonn RReeddsshhiifftt OOvveerrvviieeww Check out this Amazon Redshift Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/amazon-redshift/ 51. QUESTION A company has a web-based ticketing service that utilizes Amazon SQS and a fleet of EC2 instances. The EC2 instances that consume messages from the SQS queue are configured to poll the queue as often as possible to keep end-to-end throughput as high as possible. The Solutions Architect noticed that polling the queue in tight loops is using unnecessary CPU cycles, resulting in increased operational costs due to empty responses. In this scenario, what should the Solutions Architect do to make the system more cost-effective? Configure Amazon SQS to use long polling by setting the ReceiveMessageWaitTimeSeconds to a number greater than zero. Configure Amazon SQS to use long polling by setting the ReceiveMessageWaitTimeSeconds to zero. Configure Amazon SQS to use short polling by setting the ReceiveMessageWaitTimeSeconds to a number greater than zero. Configure Amazon SQS to use short polling by setting the ReceiveMessageWaitTimeSeconds to zero. Correct In this scenario, the application is deployed in a fleet of EC2 instances that are polling messages from a single SQS queue. Amazon SQS uses short polling by default, querying only a subset of the servers (based on a weighted random distribution) to determine whether any messages are available for inclusion in the response. Short polling works for scenarios that require higher throughput. However, you can also configure the queue to use Long polling instead, to reduce cost. The ReceiveMessageWaitTimeSeconds is the queue attribute that determines whether you are using Short or Long polling. By default, its value is zero which means it is using Short polling. If it is set to a value greater than zero, then it is Long polling. Hence, configuring Amazon SQS to use long polling by setting the ReceiveMessageWaitTimeSeconds to a number greater than zero is the correct answer. Quick facts about SQS Long Polling: – Long polling helps reduce your cost of using Amazon SQS by reducing the number of empty responses when there are no messages available to return in reply to a ReceiveMessage request sent to an Amazon SQS queue and eliminating false empty responses when messages are available in the queue but aren’t included in the response. – Long polling reduces the number of empty responses by allowing Amazon SQS to wait until a message is available in the queue before sending a response. Unless the connection times out, the response to the ReceiveMessage request contains at least one of the available messages, up to the maximum number of messages specified in the ReceiveMessage action. – Long polling eliminates false empty responses by querying all (rather than a limited number) of the servers. Long polling returns messages as soon any message becomes available. Reference: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSDeveloperGuide long-polling.html Check out this Amazon SQS Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/amazon-sqs/ 52. QUESTION A company is using an Amazon RDS for MySQL 5.6 with Multi-AZ deployment enabled and several web servers across two AWS Regions. The database is currently experiencing highly dynamic reads due to the growth of the company’s website. The Solutions Architect tried to test the read performance from the secondary AWS Region and noticed a notable slowdown on the SQL queries. Which of the following options would provide a read replication latency of less than 1 second? Create an Amazon RDS for MySQL read replica in the secondary AWS Region. Migrate the existing database to Amazon Aurora and create a cross-region read replica. Upgrade the MySQL database engine. Use Amazon ElastiCache to improve database performance. Incorrect Amazon Aurora is a MySQL and PostgreSQL-compatible relational database built for the cloud, that combines the performance and availability of traditional enterprise databases with the simplicity and cost-effectiveness of open source databases. Amazon Aurora is up to five times faster than standard MySQL databases and three times faster than standard PostgreSQL databases. It provides the security, availability, and reliability of commercial databases at 1/10th the cost. Amazon Aurora is fully managed by Amazon RDS, which automates time-consuming administration tasks like hardware provisioning, database setup, patching, and backups. Based on the given scenario, there is a significant slowdown after testing the read performance from the secondary AWS Region. Since the existing setup is an Amazon RDS for MySQL, you should migrate the database to Amazon Aurora and create a cross-region read replica. The read replication latency of less than 1 second is only possible if you would use Amazon Aurora replicas. Aurora replicas are independent endpoints in an Aurora DB cluster, best used for scaling read operations and increasing availability. You can create up to 15 replicas within an AWS Region. Hence, the correct answer is: Migrate the existing database to Amazon Aurora and create a cross-region read replica. The option that says: Upgrade the MySQL database engine is incorrect because upgrading the database engine wouldn’t improve the read replication latency to milliseconds. To achieve the read replication latency of less than 1-second requirement, you need to use Amazon Aurora replicas. The option that says: Use Amazon ElastiCache to improve database performance is incorrect. Amazon ElastiCache won’t be able to improve the database performance because it is experiencing highly dynamic reads. This option would be helpful if the database frequently receives the same queries. The option that says: Create an Amazon RDS for MySQL read replica in the secondary AWS Region is incorrect because MySQL replicas won’t provide you a read replication latency of less than 1 second. RDS Read Replicas can only provide asynchronous replication in seconds and not in milliseconds. You have to use Amazon Aurora replicas in this scenario. References: https://aws.amazon.com/rds/aurora/faqs/ https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/AuroraMySQL. Check out this Amazon Aurora Cheat Sheet: https://tutorialsdojo.com/amazon-aurora/ 53. QUESTION A top IT Consultancy has a VPC with two On-Demand EC2 instances with Elastic IP addresses. You were notified that the EC2 instances are currently under SSH brute force attacks over the Internet. The IT Security team has identified the IP addresses where these attacks originated. You have to immediately implement a temporary fix to stop these attacks while the team is setting up AWS WAF, GuardDuty, and AWS Shield Advanced to permanently fix the security vulnerability. Which of the following provides the quickest way to stop the attacks to the instances? Place the EC2 instances into private subnets Assign a static Anycast IP address to each EC2 instance Remove the Internet Gateway from the VPC Block the IP addresses in the Network Access Control List Correct A network access control list (ACL) is an optional layer of security for your VPC that acts as a firewall for controlling traffic in and out of one or more subnets. You might set up network ACLs with rules similar to your security groups in order to add an additional layer of security to your VPC. The following are the basic things that you need to know about network ACLs: – Your VPC automatically comes with a modifiable default network ACL. By default, it allows all inbound and outbound IPv4 traffic and, if applicable, IPv6 traffic. – You can create a custom network ACL and associate it with a subnet. By default, each custom network ACL denies all inbound and outbound traffic until you add rules. – Each subnet in your VPC must be associated with a network ACL. If you don’t explicitly associate a subnet with a network ACL, the subnet is automatically associated with the default network ACL. – You can associate a network ACL with multiple subnets; however, a subnet can be associated with only one network ACL at a time. When you associate a network ACL with a subnet, the previous association is removed. – A network ACL contains a numbered list of rules that we evaluate in order, starting with the lowest numbered rule, to determine whether traffic is allowed in or out of any subnet associated with the network ACL. The highest number that you can use for a rule is 32766. We recommend that you start by creating rules in increments (for example, increments of 10 or 